                                                                        THE END
                                        How much I had to do to calm his rage I
               slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
                                                         Hamlet. A whole one I!
                 reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
             with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I 1455
             Hamlet. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I
                                       Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
                                         O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
                                 Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
                                                           Horatio. That can I.
                 pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
                                                                Hamlet. Who, I?
                  boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
                not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
              them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
                                     As I do thee. Something too much of this I
                                        Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
          Hamlet. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I
      Polonius. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I 1490
                o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
                                                                    Yet I, 1640
                                                            My lord, not I. 895
                                                        Hamlet. No, not I! 1790
       Hamlet. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I 1460
   Guildenstern. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I 2240
                O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
          Ophelia. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
                                          'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
                                                             him, HAMLET.' 1220
                       occasion of my sudden and more strange return. 'HAMLET.'
                                                                   Hecuba. 1575
                                         What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
                                                                    For Hecuba!
                of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
                                       That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
                                       That looks so many fadoms to the sea 710
           Hamlet. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
                chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
                    purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
             Hamlet. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
                                                                      more, ha?
                                 As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
   'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified Ophelia,'– 1205
                                                     Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
                                                          [Enter Ophelia.] 1030
                                                              [Enter Ophelia. ]
                                                Hamlet. What, the fair Ophelia?
                               In hugger-mugger to inter him; poor Ophelia 2945
                       Laertes. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia, 3335
                                         Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
                                                               Affront Ophelia.
                                                    Gertrude. Nay, but Ophelia-
                                        Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
                                                    Gertrude. How now, Ophelia?
                         Sprung from neglected love. – How now, Ophelia? 1870
                                                      Claudius. Pretty Ophelia!
                speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
              Second Clown. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
                 obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
                 holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
             Second Clown. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
                 Hamlet. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
           Hamlet.[aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
                 anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
                to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
                        whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
             Hamlet. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
                                           And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
                                        Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
                               Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb, 1235
               (for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
                             To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
                                     'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
                                                              Come, some music!
            lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music, 2245
                                           Polonius. And let him ply his music.
                                                                Claudius. Dead.
                              The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
                                           A second time I kill my husband dead
                                     Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
                                      We should profane the service of the dead
                                    That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
                                             But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
        First Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
                              But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
                                                            No, no, he is dead;
                       Bernardo. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.
                    Hamlet.[draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead! 2410
                                      Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
                                    bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
                               The source of this our watch, and the chief head
                                       T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
                    Horatio. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
                                    Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head, 2965
                                 With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head 1580
                                          Which was declining on the milky head
                                          With all my imperfections on my head.
                                      He took my father grossly, full of bread,
                                    And at our more consider'd time we'll read,
                                     But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
                                                  Hamlet. How came he mad? 3490
                                         Polonius. That hath made him mad. 1070
                                                      Gertrude. Alas, he's mad!
                                        I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
                                      What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
                                And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
                                 And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
                               Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd, 1035
                    'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd. 1585
                                          In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
                                                            Go to thy deathbed;
                                            Will sate itself in a celestial bed
                                          When second husband kisses me in bed.
                                     Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
    Rosencrantz. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
                                           I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
                                      Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
                                      Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
                                             An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
              If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
                                                               To be commanded.
                          Gertrude. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
                              Hamlet. Mother, you have my father much offended.
                                                     Marcellus. It is offended.
                                         Polonius. This business is well ended.
                        Guildenstern. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
                                       But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
                                      As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
                                 But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
                                  Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
                                Osric. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
                                         Hamlet. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
                                        Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
                                                        Stick fiery off indeed.
                         Laertes. I know him well. He is the broach indeed 3235
                           Polonius. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
                                                A combination and a form indeed
                                     To show yourself your father's son in deed
                     You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed. 1470
                                                   Gertrude. So he does indeed.
                                    That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
                                                        Claudius. O heavy deed!
                                 Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
                                         To keep it from divulging, let it feed
                                        Claudius. She sounds to see them bleed.
      Guildenstern. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
                                  And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
                                     And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
                                    Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
                    enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
                For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
                                                            To the unsatisfied.
                                             I did repel his letters and denied
                                 Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
                             Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
                                                 Her mood will needs be pitied.
                                    Claudius. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
                                Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
                                                     Be all my sins rememb'red.
                                 Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red 2775
                   Horatio. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
                                                           Hamlet. Pale or red?
               hath borne me on his back a thousand times. And now how abhorred
                                      That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
                                         When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
                                     Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
                                    Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
                 journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
           Hamlet. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
                                                      Enter Ophelia distracted.
                      Rosencrantz. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
                        Ophelia. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
                                                Which now goes too free-footed.
                                   The memory be green, and that it us befitted
          Laertes. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted. 3055
                                           Or like a creature native and indued
                                              Ophelia. I was the more deceived.
                                      So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
                                          by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
                                                  You promis'd me to wed.' 2925
                                     Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
                                  She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
                                     Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
                                     Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
                                   'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
                                 Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd; 3875
                                Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
                                    Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd, 1545
                               Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
                        Marcellus. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
         Hamlet. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
                          And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
                               And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
                                               Let in the maid, that out a maid
                            I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
                               Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
                  set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
                                    You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
                                 And, as you said, and wisely was it said, 2310
                                Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid
                                                   Horatio. My lord, I did; 425
                                                Come short of what he did. 3230
                        Ophelia. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
                                           In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
                                           Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
                                        Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
                                 Hamlet. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
                                             Ophelia. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
            Hamlet. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
                                Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
                                     So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
           Horatio.[reads the letter] 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
                                             Horatio. How was this seal'd? 3700
                                        Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd, 815
                                                          man is twice a child.
                                          But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
                                     Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
                                In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
                                       To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
                               Gertrude. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
                           Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd
                                         To mine own room again; making so bold
                      Francisco. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
                               Hamlet. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
                                    A little month, or ere those shoes were old
                                                        To what I shall unfold.
        Hamlet.[aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you. – If you love me, hold
                             Should have a back or second, that might hold 3300
    Rosencrantz. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
                                    An understanding simple and unschool'd; 300
                                      And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
                                                                         world.
                                      I do not know from what part of the world
                                      Laertes. My will, not all the world! 3010
                                    And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
                                         Seem to me all the uses of this world!
                                        In the corrupted currents of this world
             Hamlet. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
                                    No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
                       As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
                                    That treason can but peep to what it would,
                 would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
                                             Laertes. My lord, I will be rul'd;
                                      But let this same be presently perform'd,
                                                Horatio. You might have rhym'd.
                                And both neglect. What if this cursed hand 2325
                                               Laertes. Know you the hand? 3185
                             The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand 3550
                                           But to recover of us, by strong hand
                     a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
                                             If by direct or by collateral hand
                                                      Hamlet. No, by this hand.
                                      Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
                                  Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
                                     The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
           Hamlet. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
                                      So nightly toils the subject of the land,
                                       And hath shipped me intil the land, 3415
                                     Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
                     Horatio. It must be shortly known to him from England 3725
                                   I cannot live to hear the news from England,
                                You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
                               Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
                                                                  into England.
                               Hamlet. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
                                                                   For England.
                                                           Hamlet. For England?
                               one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
                  Hamlet. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
                              The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England; 2780
         have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and 1410
                                Norwegian Captain. Against some part of Poland.
                       Osric. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
                                       You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
                                    Th' important acting of your dread command?
                            Ophelia. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
                                     An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
                                     Put your dread pleasures more into command
                                          (O royal knavery!), an exact command,
               speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
               Reynaldo. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and
         Hamlet. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and 1375
             Hamlet. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
             them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and 1430
                      crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
              rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
              Hamlet. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
            Second Clown. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand
                                                    pick'd out of ten thousand.
                only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
                                  I dare damnation. To this point I stand, 3005
                        Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand 3595
                                             Horatio. Do, if it will not stand.
              full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and 3760
                                                                           end.
                                        died. They say he made a good end. 3060
                                          No more; and by a sleep to say we end
                                   For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
                                     For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
                                  And You must put me in your heart for friend,
                                                              your friend. 2220
                                   And each particular hair to stand on end 755
                                                                  Perpend. 1200
                                I, his sole son, do this same villain send 2360
                              As make your bouts more violent to that end- 3305
                                        And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
                            Gertrude. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
                        Polonius. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
                           Claudius. Love? his affections do not that way tend;
                                          And carriage of the article design'd,
                                   That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
                                          If circumstances lead me, I will find
                                 And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
                                     Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
                                              I must be cruel, only to be kind;
                     Hamlet.[aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
                                  Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
                                       Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
                                   That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
                                                  To hear him so inclin'd. 1710
                                                                          mind.
                                   With all the strength and armour of the mind
                                   Take these again; for to the noble mind 1795
                  lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
                                        The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
                                      Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
                           To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
                                   Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
                                   And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
                                 That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
                                    Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
                              Norwegian Captain. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
                                           Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
                                      Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
                            Claudius. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
                                                         Are joyfully return'd.
                                     And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
                             That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
                             Rosencrantz. The single and peculiar life is bound
                                      And, like a man to double business bound,
                                       As it hath us'd to do- that I have found
                                   He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
                                       He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
                                    But better look'd into, he truly found 1155
                                                Laertes. Upon my life, Lamound.
                   Player King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
                                  Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
                                         It waves you to a more removed ground.
                choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
                                    We go to gain a little patch of ground 2805
                                 Millions of acres on us, till our ground, 3625
                            Hamlet. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
                                               Horatio. Friends to this ground.
                                                      Hamlet. Upon what ground?
                                   Your party in converse, him you would sound,
                                                    Gertrude. Drown'd, drown'd.
                                            Laertes. Alas, then she is drown'd?
                                               Laertes. Do you see this, O God?
                                                             Hamlet. O God! 760
                                  His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
                                       Polonius. With what, i' th' name of God?
                 which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
                Hamlet. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god
                                                             Hamlet. Good. 2760
                               Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
                                       That to the use of actions fair and good
                                     No medicine in the world can do thee good.
                                    Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
                                         It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
      Hamlet. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good 1350
                  My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
                                 Polonius. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
                                             A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
                               As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
                              Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
                                         Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
                              Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
                                 Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
                           Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
                                         Excitements of my reason and my blood,
                                                     Repast them with my blood.
                                       O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
                                        So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
                                             Hamlet.[aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
                                Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
               great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
                            Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
                                           Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
                                    Never to speak of this that you have heard:
                                    Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
                          Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd 1530
                                     His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
                                       As did that one; and that, in my regard,
                                         Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
                                   'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
                                   Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
                             Ophelia. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
                                 Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
                     Claudius. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
                  Laertes. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
                                            Bernardo. Have you had quiet guard?
                  should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.
                                  A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward? 1645
                                                        Elsinore. A churchyard.
                                    That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
                    Guildenstern. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.
                     To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
                                                              A sable silver'd.
                                  Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
                                                                  Enter a Lord.
                                                                   [Exit Lord.]
                                                        Laertes. My dread lord,
                                                       Marcellus. My good lord!
                                       First Player. What speech, my good lord?
                               Horatio.[aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord. 3740
                                               Reynaldo. But, my good lord- 985
                                                       Osric. Ay, my good lord.
                           Polonius. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
                                           Guildenstern. My honour'd lord! 1325
                                            Marcellus. How is't, my noble lord?
                         I'll blessing beg of you. – For this same lord, 2575
                              O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
                                                Rosencrantz. My most dear lord!
                                                      Horatio. O, my dear lord!
                                           Guildenstern. In what, my dear lord?
            Hamlet. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
                                                              Ophelia. My lord?
                                                     Marcellus. Nor I, my lord.
                                                 Polonius. Not I, my lord. 1280
                                                            read, my lord? 1295
                           Polonius. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
                                  Marcellus.[with Bernardo] Arm'd, my lord. 440
                                             Rosencrantz. To what end, my lord?
                                                         Ophelia. Good my lord,
                                                     Rosencrantz. Good my lord!
                               Horatio. A truant disposition, good my lord. 375
                                                     Horatio. Ay, good my lord.
                                                  Horatio. Nay, good my lord—
                                                  Reynaldo. Very good, my lord.
                       Horatio. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
                                             Horatio.[within] My lord, my lord!
                         Rosencrantz. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
                                          Horatio. There's no offence, my lord.
                                Rosencrantz. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
                                       Polonius. What treasure had he, my lord?
                                                     Ophelia. At home, my lord.
                                             Polonius. Do you know me, my lord?
                                                                There, my lord.
                                            Gertrude. Alas, look here, my lord!
                                                    Horatio. O, where, my lord?
                                              Horatio. Not a jot more, my lord.
                                      Polonius. That's very true, my lord. 1285
                              Laertes. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
                                                     Polonius. I have, my lord.
                                                  Ophelia. 'Tis brief, my lord.
                                             Messenger. Save Yourself, my lord:
                                                Guildenstern. A thing, my lord?
                                             Ophelia. I think nothing, my lord.
                                                  Reynaldo. As gaming, my lord.
                Ophelia. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord, 600
                                        Horatio. Propose the oath, my lord. 905
                                               Reynaldo. I shall, my lord. 1025
                                                Rosencrantz. We shall, my lord.
                                                       Reynaldo. Well, my lord.
                                                        Horatio. Well, my lord.
                                         Polonius. Fare you well, my lord. 1320
                                              Horatio. Very well, my lord. 2175
                                                    Hamlet. Very well, my lord.
                                              Reynaldo. Ay, very well, my lord.
                                                     Reynaldo. I will, my lord.
                              Rosencrantz.[with Guildenstern] We will, my lord.
                                                  What does this mean, my lord?
                                          Polonius. What follows then, my lord?
                               Marcellus.[with Horatio] Ay, by heaven, my lord.
                               Rosencrantz. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
                                                 Guildenstern. Prison, my lord?
                                                          Ophelia. No, my lord.
                                      Marcellus.[with Bernardo] We do, my lord.
                                          Marcellus. You shall not go, my lord.
                                    Rosencrantz. Will't please you go, my lord?
                                              Marcellus. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
                                                     Horatio. E'en so, my lord.
                                         Rosencrantz. We think not so, my lord.
                                                Claudius. Thanks, dear my lord.
                                    Horatio. You will lose this wager, my lord.
                                                 Rosencrantz. Neither, my lord.
                                 Polonius. The actors are come hither, my lord.
                                         Polonius. What is the matter, my lord?
                                         Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
                       Horatio. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
                                                   Gertrude. How fares my lord?
                                   Ophelia. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
                                            Laertes. What out of this, my lord?
                                             Ophelia. What means this, my lord?
                                                Ophelia. What is, my lord? 2000
                                 Ophelia. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
                                                   Horatio. What news, my lord?
                                                   Guildenstern. What, my lord?
                                           Laertes. What part is that, my lord?
                                                 Horatio. What's that, my lord?
                                                    Horatio. It might, my lord.
                                 Guildenstern. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
                                                 Horatio. Remember it, my lord!
                    Horatio. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord? 3960
                                       Norwegian Captain. I will do't, my lord.
                                                      Horatio. Do not, my lord!
                                    Rosencrantz. I understand you not, my lord.
                                                     Polonius. Honest, my lord?
                                         The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
                          Polonius. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
                                                          Ophelia. Ay, my lord.
                                                          Ophelia. Ay, my lord.
                                                         Reynaldo. Ay, my lord,
                                                          Horatio. Ay, my lord.
                                                First Player. Ay, my lord. 1610
                                                     First Player. Ay, my lord.
                                                           Laertes. Ay my lord,
                                     Guildenstern. What should we say, my lord?
                                                Ophelia. I shall obey, my lord.
                                               Ophelia. You are merry, my lord.
                                       Than is my deed to my most painted word.
                                           Hamlet. O, but she'll keep her word.
                      The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
                               Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
                            With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword 1565
                                  But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
                                Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
                                   Father's Ghost.[beneath] Swear by his sword.
                                                         Hamlet. Upon my sword.
                                        And lay your hands again upon my sword.
                                     And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
                                                             Swear by my sword.
                                                             Swear by my sword.
                                      I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
                                      So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
                                              Hamlet. Ay, lady, it was my word.
                                         The ratifiers and props of every word,
                                       Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
                                    The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
                                      As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
                or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd
                                        Claudius. Part them! They are incens'd.
                                     Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
                                   When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,
                                And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
                                That cannot be; since I am still possess'd 2335
                                      But even then the morning cock crew loud,
                                           And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
                                           By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
                                 It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
                                                  and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
                                           My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
                                         But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
                                             Laertes. He is justly serv'd. 3985
                                Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
                                                     Not shriving time allow'd.
                                                    city? Are they so follow'd?
                                                         Hamlet. Safely stow'd.
                                      Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd 335
               fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
         Hamlet. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
                                                                  Bernardo. He.
                Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
                                        Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
                                 Resembles that it was. What it should be, 1090
                                       Till then in patience our proceeding be.
                                        Let not the royal bed of Denmark be 820
                                   Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
         Hamlet. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
                                            Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
                                    A minist'ring angel shall my sister be 3575
                      it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
                                            what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
                                                            Gertrude. If it be,
                the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come; if it be
                                       To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
                                    Unto that element; but long it could not be
                              'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be 1650
                                            But this eternal blazon must not be
               vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
                                         But fall unshaken when they mellow be.
                                        So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
                               This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
                                          I have a voice and precedent of peace
                                        For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
                                             Hamlet. Then saw you not his face?
                                          Gertrude. Come, let me wipe thy face.
                                            He falls to such perusal of my face
                                   Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
                                                               Get you a place.
                                 As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
                                      As he in his particular act and place 510
                             It will but skin and film the ulcerous place, 2550
                                             Francisco. Bernardo hath my place.
                                           A double blessing is a double grace;
                                  Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
                                  Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
                                       He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
                                        But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
                                  Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
                                       If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
                                          On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
                                   Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
                                But even his mother shall uncharge the practice
                                   A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
                                       Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
                               Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice, 2340
                                           So, by my former lecture and advice,
                                  Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
                                        Break we our watch up; and by my advice
                                              To exploit now ripe in my device,
                                    Horatio. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
                   on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
                                                                  O, vengeance!
                                    There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
                                 You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
                           Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
                           And that our drift look through our bad performance.
                                My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
                                     Her brother is in secret come from France;
                                     Your leave and favour to return to France;
                                                  As fits a king's remembrance.
                     Hamlet. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance 3895
                                          You do remember all the circumstance?
                              One scene of it comes near the circumstance, 1955
                              Claudius. And can you by no drift of circumstance
                                        Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
                               More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
                                        On such regards of safety and allowance
               grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance 1905
                                        It will be laid to us, whose providence
                                                                       defence?
                                          For art and exercise in your defence,
                                         But to confront the visage of offence?
                                    May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
                                     That both the world, I give to negligence,
                        For that which thou hast done, – must send thee hence
                    Rosencrantz. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
                            And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
                          How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
                    Laertes.[aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
                                     And call the noblest to the audience. 4055
                                                         Sir, in this audience,
                        Rosencrantz. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
                                We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
                                              To offer it the show of violence;
                                          Nor shall you do my ear that violence
                                         Pray you pass with your best violence;
                                  Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
                                       That so his sickness, age, and impotence
                                        He closes with you in this consequence:
                                       Each small annexment, petty consequence,
                                           Led by a delicate and tender prince,
                   Horatio. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
                               Importing health and graveness. Two months since
                                           Hamlet. How long is that since? 3480
          Hamlet. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once 1980
                                To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
                          but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
                                        Hamlet. I am tame, sir; pronounce. 2195
                                      It shall as level to your judgment pierce
                              And what's in prayer but this twofold force, 2330
                                                O, a Pit of clay for to be made
                                        [Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
                                     The instant burst of clamour that she made
                                Till of this flat a mountain you have made 3590
              wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
                                   The lists, and full proportions are all made
                                           A pickaxe and a spade, a spade, 3435
                                                And recks not his own rede. 535
                               Hamlet. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
                                Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride, 100
                               Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
                                       Guildenstern. We will ourselves provide.
                             Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
                                 Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
                             All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
                              Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
                                              Claudius. Let's follow, Gertrude.
                                        He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
                                  Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
                                       A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
                                           I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
              You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. – I am glad to see thee
                                    Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
                          And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
                                          Why seems it so particular with thee?
                                     For what advancement may I hope from thee,
                                     Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
                                 Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
                                   In this distracted globe. Remember thee? 835
                                         But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
                       Hamlet. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee. 3990
                                                       Go on. I'll follow thee.
                                      I say, away! – Go on. I'll follow thee.
                                 And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee 1940
                       you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
                                O limed soul, that, struggling to be free, 2350
                                        Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
                    work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
                              Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,
                                     And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
                                             For by the image of my cause I see
                               Gertrude. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
                                 T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
            Hamlet. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
                                               what part a gentleman would see.
                       your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
                                  If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
                                         An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
                                              Horatio. What is it you will see?
                                            To keep those many many bodies safe
                                                                          life,
                                     In thee there is not half an hour of life.
                                           That makes calamity of so long life.
                             guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
                                         Upon whose property and most dear life
                                  Thrown out his angle for my proper life, 3720
               yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
                                Horatio. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
                                      Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
                                   The serpent that did sting thy father's life
                                      Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life 155
                                                          Pursued my life. 3135
                                   With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
                                          Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
                                    To grunt and sweat under a weary life, 1770
                                  Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
                                         If, once a widow, ever I be wife! 2115
              shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
                              You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
                         I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife; 3580
                                                       And prey on garbage. 795
                                  Stood challenger on mount of all the age 3160
                             With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
                                 His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
                                Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
                                       When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
                                          By heaven, it is as proper to our age
                                  You cannot call it love; for at your age 2460
                                         Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
                              'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
                                   When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?
                               To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
                                   He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
                                   Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
                                  Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage; 4065
                                                   Ghost cries under the stage.
                                 Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
                          Claudius. Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
                                                     The triumph of his pledge.
                                        Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
                      Hamlet. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
                                And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge 825
                     Hamlet. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge;
                                        We may of their encounter frankly judge
                          Polonius. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
                               The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
                                                 Of the unworthiest siege. 3215
                           That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
                                       Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
                                                               'Tis strange. 80
                        Horatio. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
                                This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
                                                     Hamlet. 'Tis very strange.
                      Laertes. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
                                                            bellow for revenge.
                    Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge 3015
                                     Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
                                                       May sweep to my revenge.
                                     Witness this army of such mass and charge,
                       Polonius. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
                                   When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
                                  And many such-like as's of great charge, 3695
                                                                            he.
                                                   Polonius. What said he? 1045
                 earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
           Hamlet. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
                                                Claudius. But how hath she 1225
                                                     Claudius. But where is he?
                                       Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
                carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she 2025
                                        And for his death no wind shall breathe
                                  And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
             action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the 1400
                and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
                                   A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
                    thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
            Hamlet. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
             Rosencrantz. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
        First Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
       Hamlet. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by. – They fool me to the
                temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
                  put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
        First Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
         First Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
              Hamlet. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
         is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the 2735
                  when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
            Hamlet. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
                      of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
              ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the 1505
              seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
                             Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
                                 Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie, 3975
                                 With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
                                        And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
              article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
                                         When he himself might his quietus make
                                    Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
           him and my daughter. – My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
                                                 These hands are not more like.
                    tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
                                         That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
                                                Gertrude. it may be, very like.
                          The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike, 185
                                                 Claudius. The doors are broke.
                                   Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,
                                        The need we have to use you did provoke
                                     First Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
                                                       Hamlet. Or like a whale.
                                                   Polonius. Very like a whale.
                         Bernardo. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
                                                       Horatio. Nay, very pale.
                                        'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
                                            For it is as the air, invulnerable,
                                 Claudius. As of a man faithful and honourable.
                                       How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
                                           Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
                                                                    your table!
                      Claudius. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table. 3910
                               Hamlet. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
                                                        Horatio. Is't possible?
                                                         Hamlet. Is't possible?
                                   Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
                                  The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
                                                                      My uncle?
                          Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle; 355
                           Hamlet. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.
                               I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
                                    Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile? 3620
                   Player King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
                                   Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
                                                  Bernardo. Sit down awhile, 40
                                Horatio. Season your admiration for a while 400
                                          As to expend your time with us awhile
                           Hamlet. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
                                              Absent thee from felicity awhile,
                              Gertrude. Bestow this place on us a little while.
                                 My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
                                       Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
                                        Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
                                      In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
                                                           stopping a bunghole?
                              When yond same star that's westward from the pole
                                           Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
                                    That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
                                       Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
                                    So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
                                        Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
                                      Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
                                      Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
                                             Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
                                       Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
                                                Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
                                                  Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
                                                          A room in the Castle.
                                                Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
                                                Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
                                                Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
                                                Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
                                          Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
                                          Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
                        Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little, 1855
                                                 They shall go far with little.
                                    A cutpurse of the empire and the rule, 2495
                                           And set a double varnish on the fame
                                      That for a fantasy and trick of fame 2850
                                    And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame
                        Polonius. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
                                                      Alack, and fie for shame!
                                                    By Cock, they are to blame.
                                  I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.
                                            O good Horatio, what a wounded name
                                        That hath in it no profit but the name.
                                    That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
                                Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
                 image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
                                 Our state to be disjoint and out of frame, 220
                                                       Claudius. The very same.
                                             Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
                                                                kill'd me. 1985
                               And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
                      (Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me! 4005
                                      To reason most absurd, whose common theme
                        Hamlet. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme 3610
                                                Gertrude. O my son, what theme?
              me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.
                                       To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
                                                             Can you advise me?
                                 Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
               you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
                                    Rosencrantz. My lord, you once did love me.
                                             Polonius. What do you think of me?
                                           I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
                          Horatio. What are they that would speak with me? 3100
                                                         I pray you go with me.
                                      To punish me with this, and this with me,
                                                    All in the morning bedtime,
                                Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
                                       So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
                               For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
                                    Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
                                   My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
                                                              take longer time.
                                                                To any pastime?
                              Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
                                       If his chief good and market of his time
                                     You must not take for fire. From this time
                                    To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
                                    But that I know love is begun by time, 3255
                                                         Hamlet. In happy time.
                                                       Father's Ghost. Mark me.
                                          Laertes. It well appears. But tell me
                      Claudius. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
                                                Who is't that can inform me? 95
                              Would make them capable. – Do not look upon me,
                                                       you cannot play upon me.
                                      And to the last bended their light on me.
                                             If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
                                 This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
                                                                     Come. 1080
                                  In the most high and palmy state of Rome, 130
   Hamlet. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in Rome-
                                                                          come.
                                  Hamlet. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
                                     There with fantastic garlands did she come
                             I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
                                          To let this canker of our nature come
                                                       Hamlet. You are welcome.
                           Hamlet. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
                                 For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
          not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come: 3855
                                     Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come. 325
                           Laertes. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
              church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
                                           That, if again this apparition come,
                                     Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
                             Horatio. Have after. To what issue will this come?
                                        Father's Ghost. My hour is almost come,
                                                                      But come!
                                            Hamlet. He will stay till you come.
                                For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
                             Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home. 3275
                              Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home 3565
                         To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
                                                     What thou hast said to me.
                                That may to thee do ease, and, grace to me, 150
                                                                   Speak to me.
                                                                   Speak to me.
                                                        Of his affection to me.
                                Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me 415
                                                              His access to me.
                                             It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'
                         Gertrude. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
                                        King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
                                                     Laertes. Come, one for me.
                            Hamlet. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
                                             Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
                                                 Hamlet. She well instructs me.
                          By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me! —
                                   And do't the speedier that you may direct me
          Hamlet. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me 1340
                pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
                       Claudius. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
                                                  Gertrude. Have you forgot me?
        Hamlet. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'? 1405
                               To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me. 2835
                                              In noise so rude against me? 2430
                                         How all occasions do inform against me
                                   But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
                                                  Will you be rul'd by me? 3195
                              Gertrude. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
                                                              Hamlet. One. 3925
                                   I am more an antique Roman than a Dane. 4000
                         Hamlet. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
                                           Marcellus. And liegemen to the Dane.
                                     You cannot speak of reason to the Dane 245
                                                              Act III, Scene 1.
                                                              Act III, Scene 2.
                                                              Act III, Scene 3.
                                                              Act III, Scene 4.
                                                               Act II, Scene 1.
                                                               Act II, Scene 2.
                                                                Act I, Scene 1.
                                                                Act I, Scene 2.
                                                                Act I, Scene 3.
                                                                Act I, Scene 4.
                                                                Act I, Scene 5.
                                                               Act IV, Scene 1.
                                                               Act IV, Scene 2.
                                                               Act IV, Scene 3.
                                                               Act IV, Scene 4.
                                                               Act IV, Scene 5.
                                                               Act IV, Scene 6.
                                                               Act IV, Scene 7.
                                                                Act V, Scene 1.
                                                                Act V, Scene 2.
                                     Have by the very cunning of the scene 1665
               tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene
                                Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine, 1160
                his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
                                   Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
                                   And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-
                          Claudius. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
               Claudius. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine; 3930
                                       I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
                                      I made to her in marriage, and to decline
                                                                          mine.
                                                          To those of mine! 790
                                     And I do think- or else this brain of mine
                                    I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
                                 Hamlet. It will be short; the interim is mine,
                                For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
                                  The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
                                        Like quills upon the fretful porcupine.
                                                          To be your Valentine.
                                  Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
                                                         ere you had done. 3800
                                   Away! for everything is seal'd and done 2770
                                                       Priest. No more be done.
                                           Laertes. Must there no more be done?
                                     Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
                                         If there be any good thing to be done,
                                        With sore distraction. What I have done
                                            Rosencrantz. Then is the world one.
                                  Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
                                  And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
                                           Gertrude. O me, what hast thou done?
                                        Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
                                                      He is dead and gone; 2890
                               Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone? 2650
                               Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
                                                  The bell then beating one- 50
                                                          Marcellus. 'Tis gone!
                                                        He is gone, he is gone,
                                Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone 215
                                                                Now I am alone.
                                       Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
                                     And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
                                                              To you alone. 690
                                    For nature crescent does not grow alone 495
                                           Second Clown. Why, he had none. 3375
                                     I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
                                                              From another one?
                                      You are the most immediate to our throne,
                                                          At his heels a stone.
                             Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
                                 And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
                                          To you yourself, to us, to every one.
                                    Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
                                     On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
                                    The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
                                  I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
                                      For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
                             That sweepstake you will draw both friend and foe,
                                             Hamlet. Nor the soles of her shoe?
          I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe 3475
                                                       Hamlet. From top to toe?
                                                         Laertes. O, treble woe
                                  These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
                                           To be contracted in one brow of woe,
               be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
                               I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
                                       Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
                                              Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
                                    Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
           Hamlet. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
                                 To business with the King, more than the scope
                                       An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
                                    To desperation turn my trust and hope, 2110
                                         For the supply and profit of our hope,
                                                             Could not so mope.
                                   To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
                                                            William Shakespeare
              Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
                                                         Horatio. Half a share.
                                     Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
             Horatio.[aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
                  freely, or the blank verse shall halt for't. What players are
                   me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
           uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring. – Masters, you are
                                 Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
               and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
                                               Claudius. At supper? Where? 2730
                                        But to my mind, though I am native here
                                  Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
                                      Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
                               And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
                                 That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
                                     Is it not monstrous that this player here,
                                           Horatio. Peace! Who comes here? 3735
                                                           Bernardo. 'Tis here!
                                                            Horatio. 'Tis here!
                                      Of Jove himself; and now reigns here 2170
                                       That youth and observation copied there,
                                  Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
                                              Hamlet. Do you see nothing there?
                                              Hamlet. I would I had been there.
                                It had been so with us, had we been there. 2640
                                                       What, is Horatio there ?
                                  or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
                                    O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there, 785
                       Francisco. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
                                                         Bernardo. Who's there?
                                       What is the issue of the business there.
    First Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there; 3485
                         Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
                                                    Laertes. Drown'd! O, where?
                                      To England send him; or confine him where
                                       That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
                                  Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
                            To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
                                   Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
                                                'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
                                        Hamlet. What, frighted with false fire?
                                         And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
                                            As if it some impartment did desire
                                        For every man hath business and desire,
                                          Out of the shot and danger of desire.
                                           It is most retrograde to our desire;
                                      Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
                                          Before You visit him, to make inquire
                                      O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
                         Hamlet. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.
                                        And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
                                                           Never departed more.
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
                                To keep itself from noyance; but much more 2290
                Hamlet. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
                         And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more. 4060
                                                                       No more.
                                                             Gertrude. No more!
                                               'One fair daughter, and no more,
                                                         eyes. Prithee no more!
                                              Gertrude. O, speak to me no more!
                                             Gertrude. O Hamlet, speak no more!
                                                     Laertes. Think it no more.
                                    Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
                        And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more. 3165
                                          Makes vow before his uncle never more
         Hamlet. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
                                                                      Elsinore.
                                       But what is your affair in Elsinore? 380
                                                                 Near Elsinore.
                                                          make you at Elsinore?
                                                             Within the centre.
                                         The terms of our estate may not endure
                                     And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
                          You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
                                   Well may it sort that this portentous figure
                 Rosencrantz. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
    Hamlet. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure. 3835
                        Hamlet. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
                                     Have you so slander any moment leisure 620
                                        Exposing what is mortal and unsure 2840
                                     Hunts not the trail of policy so sure 1135
               'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
                                 For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
                                   Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
                                 Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
                              Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature 205
                                             Laertes. I am satisfied in nature,
                                          So crimeful and so capital in nature,
                        That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature 340
                               A fault against the dead, a fault to nature, 305
                                         A violet in the youth of primy nature,
      First Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
                                                Among a mineral of metals base,
                                  Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
                                We heard it all. – My lord, do as you please;
                                         But, like the owner of a foul disease,
            That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile phrase.
                                 They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
                                     Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
                              Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase, 595
                                      Hamlet. Good sir, whose powers are these?
                                     Last, and as much containing as all these,
                                   Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
                          Our purpose may hold there. – But stay, what noise,
                            Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
                                          For food and diet, to some enterprise
                               Through your dominions for this enterprise, 1170
                                 For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
                                                     When it prov'd otherwise.?
Polonius.[points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this be otherwise.
                                      (As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
              half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
                                    As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
                      Hamlet. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else? 830
                                                   Laertes. What ceremony else?
                                                   Laertes. What ceremony else?
                                                                         sense.
                                 As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
                                         Or but a sickly part of one true sense
                                         As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
                                Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense 3585
                            Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
                                    That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
                              Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
                 in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
                   shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose
                  end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
                                      And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
                                     The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
                                     Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
                                  How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
                                       What to ourselves in passion we propose,
                                     Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
            brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose, 3815
                                     Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
                                      Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
                                   And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
                                      When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
                                              Ophelia. Still better, and worse.
                                           In obstinate condolement is a course
                thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
                                 And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
                           Sure he that made us with such large discourse, 2825
                                          I had my father's signet in my purse,
                             Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause; 4050
                                      Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
                                      For this effect defective comes by cause.
                                    Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
                                     That your good beauties be the happy cause
                                Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
           sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse 1815
                                  That I have shot my arrow o'er the house 3880
                                    To tell the secrets of my prison house, 750
                                Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
                   Hamlet. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse, 635
                           There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse; 1010
                                       If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
      Rosencrantz. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late 1420
                                        But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
                               What, have you given him any hard words of late?
                                          'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
                                    And our affairs from England come too late.
                       Claudius.[aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
                                       My liege, and madam, to expostulate 1180
                                         Set your entreatments at a higher rate
                                            Let me be no assistant for a state,
                                       Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
                                  Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
                                 The safety and health of this whole state, 505
                                                             Of his true state.
                             So far from cheer and from your former state. 2055
                                     Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
                              This bodes some strange eruption to our state. 85
                                         As it doth well appear unto our state,
                                       The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
                                    As of a father; for let the world take note
                                     As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
                                          Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
                                                    Th' effect of what I wrote?
                                The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste. 15
                            That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
                                   Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
                                   What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
                                       For the demand of our neglected tribute.
                                      The pith and marrow of our attribute. 650
                                        The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
                             Hamlet. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
                     Gertrude. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue. 2395
                          Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue, 545
                                        Give it an understanding but no tongue.
                     Gertrude. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
                                 But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
                                                                Enter Prologue.
                                     This above all- to thine own self be true,
                                        Claudius.[aside] O, 'tis too true! 1740
                            Horatio. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
                                                      Polonius. 'Tis most true;
                               Collected from all simples that have virtue 3290
                           To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue; 2555
                  By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
                                       Occasion smiles upon a second leave. 540
                                    I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
                                        Laertes. I pray you give me leave. 2980
                    Polonius. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave 260
       Hamlet. So you must take your husbands. – Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
                                                     Reynaldo. My lord, I have.
                                            Gertrude. What would she have? 2860
                                    And makes us rather bear those ills we have
                             Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
          first mouth'd, to be last swallowed. When he needs what you have 2695
                     this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
                                  Who was in life a foolish peating knave. 2620
                                                      But he's an arrant knave.
                                     Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
                    [The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave.]
                Horatio. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave 870
                                                          [Leaps in the grave.]
                                       To outface me with leaping in her grave?
                                Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
                                                And not have strew'd thy grave.
                                                         Hamlet. Into my grave?
                               Polonius. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
                               Horatio. Before my God, I might not this believe
              reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
                                         Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
                                                         pound! Didst perceive?
                   those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
                                They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
                  beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
                                   And thy commandment all alone shall live 840
                                                  Hamlet. Nay, but to live 2485
                              bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
                                  Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
                    Hamlet. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive. 1990
                                       I could not but by her. The other motive
                                   Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
                                           Horatio. I think it lacks of twelve.
                                       Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
                                            Anon, as patient as the female dove
                                                        Fare you well, my dove!
                               To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove, 3405
                                                   But never doubt I love. 1215
                               First Clown. In youth when I did love, did love,
                                      I do receive your offer'd love like love,
                          Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love. 2095
                                      There lives within the very flame of love
                            Are base respects of thrift, but none of love. 2075
                                         As meditation or the thoughts of love,
                                              This is the very ecstasy of love,
                                              And with no less nobility of love
                                    Could not (with all their quantity of love)
                                 Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
                              Ophelia. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
                                       If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
                                    More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
                                   This mad young man. But so much was our love
                                                                      his love.
                                                             Receiv'd his love?
                                                       Hamlet. As woman's love.
                                    From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
             Ophelia. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
                                                    Polonius. Mad for thy love?
                                 Queen. The instances that second marriage move
                                                  Doubt that the sun doth move;
                                      Yet the unshaped use of it doth move 2865
                        This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
                                      For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
                                           As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
                                       After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
                                 O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
                                          Guildenstern. Faith, her privates we.
                                        No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
                                         No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
                                     Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
                                        With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
                                   He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
                                      Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
                                                       As day does to your eye.
                               Horatio. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
                                     We shall express our duty in his eye; 2790
                                           And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
                                            Hamlet. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye! 1620
                            I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze 3340
                          Claudius. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
               Hamlet. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief. 2030
               hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
                                  Hamlet.[comes forward] What is he whose grief
                           Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief, 285
                             Claudius. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
                                       The origin and commencement of his grief
                                   Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
                                              By his cockle bat and' staff 2885
                                         Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
                                             My head should be struck off. 3675
                               [A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.]
                                             Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
                        Gertrude. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off, 270
              Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance are shot off.
                                                                       not off.
                                             If it be made of penetrable stuff;
      sir, – it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if 3110
              little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
                                        And live the purer with the other half,
                                   Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
                                     So much from th' understanding of himself,
      Rosencrantz. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
                                                             The Devil himself.
                       excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
                                            It is a poison temper'd by himself.
                                       When down her weedy trophies and herself
                                      I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
                          Francisco. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
                                 Polonius. Observe his inclination in yourself.
                                    Given private time to you, and you yourself
                                      And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
                                 It sends some precious instance of itself 3040
                         Laertes. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
                                          Being a thing immortal as itself? 700
                                          Whose violent property fordoes itself
                               With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
                                            Horatio. As thou art to thyself. 75
                       Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
                                                      purpose, confess thyself-
                                      Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
                                                         Must render up myself.
                                        How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
                                 Lives almost by his looks; and for myself, —
                                            Horatio! – or I do forget myself.
                                          That to Laertes I forgot myself, 3730
                                            Behind the arras I'll convey myself
            know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of 3765
                  very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
                    altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
                his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
      Guildenstern. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
                fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
                                    Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
                 pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
                  letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of
   First Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of 3510
                                     But with a crafty madness keeps aloof 1690
                                          And that I see, in passages of proof,
                    till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
                Hamlet. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
                    Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
              keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
                    nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
                        speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
              or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
                                   Than fly to others that we know not of? 1775
                  this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
                                   That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf, 770
                                                At his head a grass-green turf,
                                           Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
                                      That he could nothing do but wish and beg
                                         Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
                                                                      the King.
                                Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
                                            Marcellus. Is it not like the King?
                                      There is a play to-night before the King.
                                                  Bernardo. Long live the King!
                      Polonius. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King. 1060
                             Hamlet. An earnest conjuration from the King, 3690
                                   To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
                       Enter Lucianus.This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
                           But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King- 3545
                                      Then, venom, to thy work. Hurts the King.
                                       Hamlet. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
                   Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
                                                                    Enter King.
                                                                    Enter King.
                    Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
                  Gertrude. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
                                     I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
                                     What company, at what expense; and finding
                     neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
                                                           The King is a thing-
                                  More relative than this. The play's the thing
       Hamlet. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'– the proverb is something
                                                        tell me one thing. 3525
                                        Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
                                                               Hamlet. Nothing.
                                                                   Did nothing.
                                                 Bernardo. I have seen nothing.
                           With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing! 1630
                              That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
                           As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing; 1945
                roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
                              Horatio. And then it started, like a guilty thing
                                        There's such divinity doth hedge a king
                                                                of a king? 2690
                                                      Gertrude. As kill a king?
                                      Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
                                                                  grave-making?
                                       And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
                                                 This man shall set me packing.
                              They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!' 2970
                                                              O thou vile king,
                   Fortinbras. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king. 2785
                              As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
                                    That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
                                         'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
                                        Both to my God and to my gracious king;
                                  At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
                                 Horatio. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.
             That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling 1465
                     Polonius. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
                                                       When thou liest howling.
                                                     In censure of his seeming.
          Gertrude. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
                                        Hamlet. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
                                  Awake the god of day; and at his warning, 175
                                               Reynaldo. Good my lord! [Going.]
              shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
                                                 His silence will sit drooping.
                                  A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
                        The ears are senseless that should give us hearing 4035
                  Father's Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing 740
                             Hamlet. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
                light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
                                     The canker galls the infants of the spring
                                               Francisco. Not a mouse stirring.
                                  Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
                          Hamlet. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
                                 A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
                                Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting; 490
                                     And sure I am two men there are not living
                              Most generous, and free from all contriving, 3280
                                 When I had seen this hot love on the wing 1230
               nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,
                             If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
                              Hamlet. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
                                                     the puppets dallying. 2140
                                       Therefore I have entreated him along, 35
                                                    Polonius. This is too long.
                                    The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
                                  Hamlet. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
                       Hamlet. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
                            Gertrude. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
                                      Believe so much in him, that he is young,
                                                                   are unwrung.
                                  But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
                                         In going back to school in Wittenberg,
                                I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
            Hamlet. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
          Hamlet. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
                                                     Hamlet. And smelt so? Pah!
                                   Hamlet. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
                         will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
                                         And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
                                 And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
                                     Do not itself unkennel in one speech, 1960
                         taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech. 1510
              [To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
                plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
                 his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
                           My virtue or my plague, be it either which, – 3145
                                  I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
         assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French 3805
                            I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
                     against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
                                  If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
                                      Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
                                  Appears before them and with solemn march 410
                                       And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
                                      Laertes. To cut his throat i' th' church!
                                       Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
                                     I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
                                And I with them the third night kept the watch;
                                        (Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
                                  With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
                                  Why this same strict and most observant watch
                                                  Hath clawed me in his clutch,
                               A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much 3685
                           You have been talk'd of since your travel much, 3210
                                    The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
                                           Without the sensible and true avouch
                                                   As if I had never been such.
    Hamlet. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such 2205
                             And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
                form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
                                       The chariest maid is prodigal enough 520
                                   That swift as quicksilver it courses through
           Hamlet. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
                              Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash 1550
                                      For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
                                         And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
                 Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish 1970
                             As love between them like the palm might flourish,
                                          And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
                               Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
                                  We'll put the matter to the present push. —
                         Fortinbras. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
                                  Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
                                                               It may be death.
                                  Under the moon, can save the thing from death
                                     He should the bearers put to sudden death,
                                     Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
                          (For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
                                   But that the dread of something after death-
                                     He never gave commandment for their death.
                                      O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
                               That I am guiltless of your father's death, 3025
                                 With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
                                  Which I have told thee, of my father's death.
                                   Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
                        Claudius. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
                                                                To muddy death.
                                             Is by a forged process of my death
                                                     And hears it roar beneath.
                                        Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
                         Gertrude. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
                                       Gertrude. He's fat, and scant of breath.
                                The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
                                                                  rawer breath?
              Hamlet. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
                  yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
                his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
                                   That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
                     Hamlet. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
                                                             Horatio. In faith,
                                           Marcellus. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
            Hamlet. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
                           Laertes. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
               tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
                          Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
               better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
                                                          Here's to thy health.
                                            Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
                                    By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
                                        Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
                               Giving more light than heat, extinct in both 605
                              Claudius. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
                                          I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
              thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth 2145
                                  Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
                 heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
                         Rosencrantz. As the indifferent children of the earth.
                                         Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
         Hamlet. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
                                                 Laertes. Lay her i' th' earth;
                          The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth, 3920
                               Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
                                  'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
                                        For he himself is subject to his birth.
                                    To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
                              I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
                                             Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
                                          Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
                                       The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
                                                   Horatio. Not from his mouth,
                                  Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
                                 Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth, 775
                                   Claudius. A very riband in the cap of youth-
                                    And in the morn and liquid dew of youth 525
                            That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth 1850
                                 What is between you? Give me up the truth. 585
                          Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth; 1015
                                          A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
                                                                      O, speak!
                                      Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
                                      And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
                           Horatio. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak! 65
                            Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
                              For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
                      Gertrude. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
                             Horatio. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
                                 But from what cause he will by no means speak.
                                       And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
                                                   Claudius. Why, now You speak
                        Player King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
                 visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
                                         But what we do determine oft we break.
                             What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
                                                          Gertrude. Alack, 2605
                                   And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
                                           Nor customary suits of solemn black,
                                       So levied as before, against the Polack;
                                        To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,
                                 Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
                            Marcellus. It faded on the crowing of the cock. 180
                                                          A very, very- pajock.
                and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
                                               Marcellus. No, it is struck. 630
                                                       So bloodily hast struck.
                                     If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
                                      Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
                                           And with a larger tether may he walk
                                      Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
                                      And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
         First Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
                                         As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
                                           I bought an unction of a mountebank,
                                           As level as the cannon to his blank,
                                 What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
                          Ophelia. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
                                     Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
                                                  Your wisdom best shall think.
                   breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
                   Claudius. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
                     Polonius. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
                           Till that her garments, heavy with their drink, 3330
                                              Claudius. Gertrude, do not drink.
                                               Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
                                        If I had play'd the desk or table book,
                  We will bestow ourselves. – [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
                The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
                                   Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
                         Gertrude. There is a willow grows aslant a brook, 3315
                                          And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
                                                      A very noble youth. Mark.
                                      My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
                                                     Couch we awhile, and mark.
                                           Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
                                         In which the majesty of buried Denmark
                        Marcellus. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
                                A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
                       Ophelia. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark? 2880
                         Hamlet. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
                                                for your succession in Denmark?
                               And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
                                 From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
                         Osric. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
                                          Ophelia. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
                                                   Ophelia. Pray you mark. 2895
                                          Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
                       How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
                                 What might you think? No, I went round to work
                                   And marshal me to knavery. Let it work; 2610
                               Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
                                           We do it wrong, being so majestical,
          air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical 1395
                Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal. 665
                        Claudius. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
                                       Which was the model of that Danish seal;
                                        (My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
                                       Where every god did seem to set his seal
                                          As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
                                    Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
                  laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
                Osric. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
                                                            Of bell and burial.
              gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
              The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial. 3350
                                     With juice of cursed hebona in a vial, 800
                                               Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
                                  His means of death, his obscure funeral- 3090
                         Horatio. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
                      history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
                                    But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
                                                Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
                                 Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
                              Gertrude. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
                               Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
                                   What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
                                That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
                          Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
                                Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
             Hamlet. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
                                                And bear it to the chapel. 2685
                                             With variable objects, shall expel
                         was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel? 3540
                                          Polonius. It is back'd like a weasel.
                                     Hamlet. Methinks it is like a weasel. 2255
         Hamlet. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
                  memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
                                    The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
                                   From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
                               When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, 1760
                                                                   into a toil?
                                        Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
                               To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
                                                               In further evil?
                The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
                   the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
                     not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
                                  May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
                               And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
                                         To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
                                                   Bernardo. Last night of all,
                                        And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
                                  Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
                                          But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
                               And let me wring your heart; for so I shall 2425
                target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
                                That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
                                                   Claudius. So you shall; 3095
             Hamlet. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
                                                              they'll tell all.
                                 Hamlet. He was a man, take him for all in all.
                                         His liberty is full of threats to all-
                                        The better to beguile. This is for all:
          do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all; 1820
                                 Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
                                   Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,
                                      And so, without more circumstance at all,
                               (Unless things mortal move them not at all) 1590
                                                                 Or not at all.
                                  Polonius. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
                                  And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all, 465
                                What feast is toward in thine eternal cell 4030
                                        A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
                                     Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
                                      As if he had been loosed out of hell 1040
                      Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell, 670
                                  O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
                                 But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
                                           Second Clown. Marry, now I can tell!
                                             Second Clown. Mass, I cannot tell.
                                    Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell 675
                                                                      Farewell.
                                Laertes. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
                  for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell. 3125
                                     nowhere but in's own house. Farewell. 1825
                                                            Polonius. Farewell!
                                       Gertrude. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
                                  Hamlet. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
                                 Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
                              Claudius. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
                                         Polonius. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
                                              The which he loved passing well.'
                                                             love passing well.
                                  Hamlet. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
                                    And for my means, I'll husband them so well
                              Laertes. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well 570
                                        I will bestow him, and will answer well
   First Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well. 3385
                                                    Claudius. It likes us well;
                                       Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
                                  My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
                                            Hamlet. Thou pray'st not well. 3600
                  Polonius. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well. 965
                                   Hamlet. That's two of his weapons- but well.
                                             Hamlet. I am glad to see you well.
                              I will requite your loves. So, fare you well. 470
                                             Gertrude. Did he receive you well?
                                             Claudius. Let him demand his fill.
                              Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill. 190
                                          New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
                                         We must with all our majesty and skill
                                                            have not the skill.
                                A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
                                       Let it be tenable in your silence still;
                                                     Hamlet. It waves me still.
                                  And nothing is at a like goodness still; 3260
                                                            Hamlet. I will. 735
       First Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
                                   To show us so much gentry and good will 1105
                                      Horatio. What is't, my lord? We will. 890
                                        No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
             Hamlet. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
                                                         All. We will, we will!
                                               Rough-hew them how we will- 3660
                                        Though inclination be as sharp as will.
           of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will 3450
                                                  And reason panders will. 2480
        First Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
                fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
                                                    Horatio. I warr'nt it will.
                         Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will, 3080
              know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
                                  And thy best graces spend it at thy will! 265
                                                       All flaxen was his poll.
                                     That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
                                             Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
                                  Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
                                                           [Throws up a skull.]
                                                         [Puts down the skull.]
                                                     Throws up [another skull].
                                      Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.
              Hamlet. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
                        Polonius. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
                                                   Marcellus. O, wonderful! 860
                                   As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
                                                And my imaginations are as foul
                                                   Hamlet. O my prophetic soul!
                                        The inward service of the mind and soul
                                       She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
                                    When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
                                      O, step between her and her fighting soul
                                     And we shall jointly labour with your soul
                                   Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
                                        To take him in the purging of his soul,
                            Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
                                                      God 'a'mercy on his soul!
                                              Laertes. The devil take thy soul!
                                         Even with the very comment of thy soul
                                              I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
                                      Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
                                                            Hamlet. Good madam!
                                Hamlet. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
                                 the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
                               That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
                                                            Now falls on Priam.
                                  'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
                                    This sudden sending him away must seem 2715
                entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
                          Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
                                                And not where I had aim'd them.
                               You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
                                They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
                                                  I pray you, now receive them.
             speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them 1915
                       But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them. 3320
                              Do you believe his tenders, as you call them? 590
                                                           help to hasten them?
                                 That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
                                        Claudius. Laertes, you shall hear them.
                                       Claudius. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
                                                 Of him that brought them. 3175
               are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
                              And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
                                We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
                             (For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
                            And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
                                            This night to play before him. 1705
                                       Ophelia. O heavenly powers, restore him!
                                                    Horatio. Heaven secure him!
                                             Horatio. I did very well note him.
                                       And will not let belief take hold of him
                                                       Horatio. A piece of him.
                            Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
                                                  Hamlet. Ay, sir, what of him?
                       Osric. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him. 3770
                             To show his grief. Let her be round with him; 1875
                                                    Pray you be round with him.
                              That, being of so young days brought up with him,
                                                           [Grapples with him.]
                                  No more to undertake it, I will work him 3200
                him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
                                                        We cannot get from him.
                                      Did not together pluck such envy from him
          Osric. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
                                    Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
                                        That we with wisest sorrow think on him
                                And thus a while the fit will work on him. 3630
                                       You must not put another scandal on him,
                       Claudius. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him. 3640
                                      Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
                                Yet must not we put the strong law on him. 2710
                     Polonius. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
                                    This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
                                                   Pleasant and helpful to him!
                        Polonius. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
                            Is the great love the general gender bear him, 3150
                                        Gertrude. For love of God, forbear him!
                               That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
                              To our most valiant brother. So much for him. 225
                                                          Speak loudly for him.
                                   Reynaldo. My lord, that would dishonour him.
                                              First Player. 'Anon he finds him,
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
                                     Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
                                             Claudius. Well, we shall sift him.
                           More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
     Hamlet. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, 3515
                                          Marcellus. Nay, let's follow him. 730
                                                    Gertrude. Did you assay him
                                                 Gertrude. But not by him! 3000
                        Marcellus. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
                             To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
                                   I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
                           A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
                                     With tristful visage, as against the doom,
                                 I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room. —
                                   The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom. 2270
                                         And to the manner born, it is a custom
                                                   Horatio. Is it a custom? 640
                                         At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
                                 No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
                                    And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
                                     Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
                                             In filial obligation for some term
                                    Together with that fair and warlike form 60
                                 And there assume some other, horrible form 705
                                    The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
                   act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
          Hamlet. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform 1805
                                      But, as we often see, against some storm,
                                        of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
                               Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
                                     And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
                  escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
                honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
          the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an 3355
                                        So much as from occasion you may glean,
                                  To cast thee up again. What may this mean 680
                                                     That I might be the organ.
            did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician, 3420
                                          To give the world assurance of a man.
                                       And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
                                                       Hamlet. As th'art a man,
                                 Hamlet. Then I would you were so honest a man.
                                   Hamlet. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
                                                       The unseen good old man.
                                       Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
                                         For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
                                         Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
                                                              [Exit Gentleman.]
                                                               gentleman.' 1005
                                              Second Clown. Was he a gentleman?
                                            Rosencrantz. Most like a gentleman.
                                          But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
                                         He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
                newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
                                        Like a good child and a true gentleman.
                                'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
                         Hamlet. What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
            Hamlet. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
                                         Holds such an enmity with blood of man
                                                                    Speak, man.
                                            would perhaps trouble a woman. 3850
               is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
                     Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman! – 350
                                                       O most pernicious woman!
                                                            Claudius. A Norman.
                           To sound what stop she please. Give me that man 1950
                                       Thou canst not then be false to any man.
                                                         And we cast away moan.
                              Did the king sigh, but with a general groan. 2300
                          Marcellus. Shall I strike at it with my partisan? 160
                                     Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
                               About the world have times twelve thirties been,
                               Hath seal'd thee for herself. For thou hast been
                                     And thirty dozen moons with borrowed sheen
                                  Ophelia. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
                                  I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
                                        It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
                                                  What we two nights have seen.
                             Hamlet. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
                             Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen, 1720
                have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
                                         Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.
                                       This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
                                                    Hamlet. How does the Queen?
                                                            [Enter Queen.] 3310
                                                                  [Exit Queen.]
                                                    Hamlet. 'The mobled queen'?
                     First Player. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
                                  Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
                                    The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
                                                          How now, sweet queen?
                                     My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
                       And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between 2385
              will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
                Osric. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
                             When honour's at the stake. How stand I then, 2845
              carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.
                                             Claudius. Will you know them then?
                                                       Hamlet. What woman then?
                                   But if the gods themselves did see her then,
                                                          O heavy burthen! 1745
                                        Be you and I behind an arras then. 1265
         your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien 3505
                                  And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
                                                       Gertrude. Ay, amen! 1125
     Hamlet. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men 1300
                                      The imminent death of twenty thousand men
                                                                All. Gentlemen!
                                                              Exeunt Gentlemen.
                                       Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
                           Horatio. Two nights together had these gentlemen 405
                                           Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
                           Hamlet. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
                                                    Come hither, gentlemen, 910
                                         Polonius. Well be with you, gentlemen!
                                   The form of plausive manners, that these men
                                            So oft it chances in particular men
                                                                  the only men.
                                             Unto our climature and countrymen.
                           Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open 515
                                                    On plots and errors happen.
                  that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
         Rosencrantz. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
          suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten 2010
                          And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven? 2365
                                 Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
                          And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven, 1570
                               That he might not beteem the winds of heaven 345
                               Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
                                       With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
                              Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
                                       Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
                                                                     To heaven.
                                    Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
                                 Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
                                   And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
                                    O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
                                      It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
                                 Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
                                    Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
                                             As oft as any passion under heaven
                              Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
                                            Horatio. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
                                     Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
                            But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
                                       Will nothing stick our person to arraign
                                                                         again.
                                      I shall not look upon his like again. 395
                                                      He never will come again.
                                               And will he not come again? 3065
                                                    And will he not come again?
                                     Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
                                                   Perchance 'twill walk again.
                                                          Laertes. Well, again!
                   Marcellus. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
                                    But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
                         And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again, 330
                                      Now fear I this will give it start again;
                                                           [Enter Ghost again.]
                                      Would have reverted to my bow again, 3155
                                        Will bring him to his wonted way again,
                                             Hamlet. A murtherer and a villain!
                               That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
                                   O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
                    Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain! 1655
                                 With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
                                               Polonius.[behind] O, I am slain!
                                     That he which hath your noble father slain
                               But in battalions! First, her father slain; 2940
                                         Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
                      Laertes. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain; 3970
                            Gertrude. I doubt it is no other but the main, 1145
                                         And we beseech you, bend you to remain
                               And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
                              Gertrude. This is the very coinage of your brain.
                                       Player Queen. Sleep rock thy brain, 2120
                                        Within the book and volume of my brain,
                                          Without more motive, into every brain
                                                  Exeunt [all but the Captain].
                    Hamlet. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
                                                 Horatio. That is most certain.
                                   Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
                         Gertrude. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
                       Player Queen. And never come mischance between us twain!
                                                      Hamlet. Up from my cabin,
         receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in 1515
                 his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
            Hamlet. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
                    faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
                   valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
                                                     Horatio. Let them come in.
                                                     Gertrude. Let her come in.
                                             A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
                                                        All. No, let's come in!
                                        To his confine; and of the truth herein
               twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
                   piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
                 especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
                                  'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
                                       And, as the world were now but to begin,
                                    I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
                                     Since nature cannot choose his origin, —
                                        Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
                                 [Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
                                                            Is very cunning in.
                                                                A noise within.
                                     Give me superfluous death. A noise within.
                             [Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].]
                                                                [March within.]
                                     Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
                           To tell my story. [March afar off, and shot within.]
                   Hamlet. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
                             Hamlet. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
                                                     your bounty. Take them in.
                         Claudius. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
        Hamlet. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in 3785
       Hamlet. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in 3845
                                 And after we will both our judgments join 1965
                honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
                                        Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
                                                   Claudius. Our son shall win.
                                             How now O What hath befall'n? 2720
                                             Such was the very armour he had on
                                            I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
                                And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
                                                    Give us the foils. Come on.
                                      And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
                                        And prologue to the omen coming on, 140
                                                         In honourable fashion.
                                                                    A scullion!
                                     But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
                         Rosencrantz. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
                                Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
                                  But in a fiction, in a dream of passion, 1625
                                                       Into a tow'ring passion.
                                      Had he the motive and the cue for passion
                                                  against their own succession.
                                  When we would bring him on to some confession
                                                     hold up Adam's profession.
                                    Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
                      I'll cross it, though it blast me. – Stay illusion! 145
                                            This present object made probation.
                                     That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation
    Rosencrantz. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
                                                     And gem of all the nation.
                              Horatio. He waxes desperate with imagination. 725
                                             I have in quick determination 1860
                                        To show my duty in your coronation, 255
                           If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
                                       The very place puts toys of desperation,
                                                 amazement and admiration. 2210
                                 Father's Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
                                      No noble rite nor formal ostentation, —
                                And they in France of the best rank and station
                     him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
First Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully seeks her own salvation?
                                                                    innovation.
                                     Marcellus. Look with what courteous action
                                Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
                                    And keep you in the rear of your affection,
                                     And could of men distinguish, her election
Polonius. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good discretion.
                                        According to the phrase or the addition
                       Norwegian Captain. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
                                        Why should we in our peevish opposition
                                           So horridly to shake our disposition
                   Guildenstern. But with much forcing of his disposition. 1695
                                  That might your nature, honour, and exception
                                   Shall in the general censure take corruption
                                                 went to cuffs in the question.
                             Hamlet. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
                                    By this encompassment and drift of question
                                                That I must call't in question.
                                  But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
                                          And thus the native hue of resolution
          about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution, 3430
                                      By the o'ergrowth of some complexion, 655
          Hamlet. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
                                     For what we know must be, and is as common
                                               Hamlet. Ay, madam, it is common.
                                       And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
                                           To put an antic disposition on), 925
                                                          And his sandal shoon.
                                Gertrude. So many journeys may the sun and moon
                                        Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
                                          If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
                                             My custom always of the afternoon,
    Hamlet. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon. – 1595
                                                     Hamlet. What's his weapon?
                           Horatio. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon. 385
                         Hamlet. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
                                             That capability and godlike reason
                                 (O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
                               Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
                                 Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
                                  Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
                                                    All. Treason! treason! 3980
                                                          fay, I cannot reason.
                 Horatio. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
               demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
                                       Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
                         or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
                                               Hamlet. Denmark's a prison. 1345
                  deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
                                  Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.
                                 Hamlet. If it assume my noble father's person,
                                Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son. 320
                               Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son. —
                                                             Where is your son?
                                   Than that which dearest father bears his son
                                         But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
                                      You laying these slight sullies on my son
                                   On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
                                         For he was likely, had he been put on,
         Hamlet. It shall to the barber's, with your beard. – Prithee say on.
                                                      Fortinbras. Go softly on.
                                     Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
                       Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                 Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern,
                          Claudius. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                                            Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                                            Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                                     [Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.] 2660
                                            Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                               [Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.]
                                          [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
                                           Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                                    [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.] 2630
                                       [Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].]
                                          [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
                         Claudius. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
                                 Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
               Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern,
       march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern,
                                     The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
                                      Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
                                     The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
                   your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
                                 himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
                                             But, orderly to end where I begun,
                                         Our wills and fates do so contrary run
                             Hamlet. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
                                           'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
                                   And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
                                        They had begun the play. I sat me down;
                         Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down! 1845
                                                    Horatio. Well, sit we down,
                              Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
                                And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
                                             And break your own neck down. 2600
                                                       As therein are set down.
                                        My tables! Meet it is I set it down 845
                              Leave wringing of your hands. Peace! sit you down
                                              Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
                                        With an entreaty, herein further shown,
                                                           [Exit Second Clown.]
                                            Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
                                         As are companions noted and most known
                                                           Now wears his crown.
            First Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
                                           As if increase of appetite had grown
                                     Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
                              Ophelia. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
                                         That our devices still are overthrown;
                        Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own. 2105
                 desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own
                                His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
                 and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go
                                                                       No. 2370
                                                                   Laertes. No.
                  Bernardo. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
                                                     Gertrude. What shall I do?
                                    Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
                                 That he should weep for her? What would he do,
                                Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
                                                   Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
                    Polonius. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo, 950
                       Polonius. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
                                  And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
                                                               [Exit Reynaldo.]
           If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do 2200
                            My operant powers their functions leave to do. 2065
                                       My stern effects. Then what I have to do
                                      And let them know both what we mean to do
                                    Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
                                  That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
                                                 Marcellus. Holla, Bernardo! 25
                                        Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
                                                         Francisco. Bernardo? 5
           players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do 1885
                                            He may not, as unvalued persons do,
                                          Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
                                        I once did hold it, as our statists do,
                                      Hamlet. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
                         Hamlet. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do: 2585
                 O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
                                                                      Gonzago'?
         Hamlet. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.
                              And end his being. That done, he lets me go, 1055
                                         I do beseech you give him leave to go.
                                                As infinite as man may undergo-
                                                               But let that go.
                                           Which bewept to the grave did not go
                                           Horatio. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
                                           Why to a public count I might not go
                                                                         O, ho!
                                            Osric. Look to the Queen there, ho!
                                                                Help, help, ho!
            Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
                                                           Hamlet. Between who?
               tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
                                                              Hamlet. Saw? who?
                                                      Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
                                             Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
                                 Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
                                             But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
                favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
                                                     Hamlet. O, I die, Horatio!
                                             Hamlet. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
                                And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? 370
                                                        [Retires with Horatio.]
                            There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
                                                     Hamlet. What, ho, Horatio!
                                                                 Enter Horatio.
                          Hamlet. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
                     Bernardo. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio. 55
                                               Marcellus. Question it, Horatio.
                           Marcellus. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
                                                                [Exit Horatio.]
                                                                [Exit Horatio.]
                                          Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
                                            Hamlet. His beard was grizzled- no?
         Hamlet. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
               scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
                                                    Hamlet. How if I answer no?
                                     If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
                                           me, whether you were sent for or no.
               more than their even-Christian. Come, my spade! There is no 3370
           Hamlet. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
                discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no 1390
        Rosencrantz. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too. 1445
                                               Hamlet. The point envenom'd too?
                                               Horatio. Let him bless thee too.
               to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
                                 Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
             very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too 3115
                              Horatio. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too. 3455
                                   Claudius. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too; 1715
                  monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
                  Player King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
                                              Second Clown. Why, 'tis found so.
                                                 Claudius. It shall be so. 1880
                                                       Laertes. Let this be so.
                                    Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
                                   As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so. 1050
                 Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
                              Ophelia. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
                                                              Horatio. E'en so.
                              Bernardo. I think it be no other but e'en so. 125
                                          Osric. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
                              Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so? 2595
                Horatio. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so. 3535
                 mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
                                          That I have Positively said 'Tis so,'
                                        And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
                                    promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
                                    I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
                                         If damned custom have not braz'd it so
                                          The rather, if you could devise it so
                                          Hamlet. No, by the rood, not so! 2400
             Hamlet. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so 1810
                                                       Ophelia. No more but so?
                                                           And let him know so.
                            neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
                                    Hamlet. I would not hear your enemy say so,
            Hamlet. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
                                                Bernardo. It would be spoke to.
                 My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
              He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
              will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
           Rosencrantz. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
          soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to 1890
                                                      Second Clown. Go to! 3380
                           Polonius. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
               brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
                 bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
                     'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to
     Hamlet. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to 2190
Rosencrantz. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to 2700
           Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to 3840
               have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
                  'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
                                But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
         Hamlet. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two 1925
                                                               Exeunt they two.
                                         Hamlet. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
                                    Hamlet. I mean, my head upon your lap? 1995
                           Ophelia. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
                             And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
                                                    The tedious day with sleep.
                                       Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
                                    And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
                                         And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
                                    For some must watch, while some must sleep:
                                   Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
                                        To try conclusions, in the basket creep
                                    Hamlet. Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
                                            Horatio. Hail to your lordship! 365
                                Osric. I commend my duty to your lordship. 3820
                                             Ophelia. What means your lordship?
                                  Polonius.[behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
                                    For out o' doors he went without their help
                                   The bark is ready and the wind at help, 2755
                                   No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
              sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
                                    Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
                                           Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
                                                              Give him the cup.
                                               You mainly were stirr'd up. 3140
                                     Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
                find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
                               And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up; 3325
                               Horatio. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
                                     A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-
                              With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
                                              For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
                                      Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
                                   And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
                                                         All given to mine ear.
                                          Hamlet. Why, what should be the fear?
                             Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
                                          Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
                                        Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
                                        For we will fetters put upon this fear,
                                 The virtue of his will; but you must fear, 500
                                   Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
                                            Hamlet. For God's love let me hear!
                                              Hamlet. Nor did you nothing hear?
                                             Hamlet. Speak. I am bound to hear.
                            Claudius. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
                               Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
             Hamlet. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
                              Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
                  Father's Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
                               Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
                                 How these things came about. So shall you hear
                                        The glowworm shows the matin to be near
                                 Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
                                        Horatio. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
                                        And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
                                      And in his grave rain'd many a tear. 3045
                                                                         Swear.
                                                Father's Ghost.[beneath] Swear.
                                            Father's Ghost.[beneath] Swear. 935
                                                         Father's Ghost. Swear.
                                 As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
                                                              Consent to swear.
                                                                  [They swear.]
                                                                 you nine year.
                                               Drabbing. You may go so far. 975
                 he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
                                                          the guts of a beggar.
               we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
                                      Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
                                                      Doubt truth to be a liar;
                                  Being nature's livery, or fortune's star, 660
                                   Disasters in the sun; and the moist star 135
                                     'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
                                       The soldiers' music and the rites of war
                                     And foreign mart for implements of war; 90
                              Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
                                                Hamlet. I beseech you remember.
                           That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
                                  And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
                        Horatio. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
                               As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder 1560
                                             Claudius. Pluck them asunder. 3605
                          And, but that great command o'ersways the order, 3560
                                       And, as I think, they have already order
                                 Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer 1750
                                                            You know the wager?
                                                 Osric. Rapier and dagger. 3790
                                    Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
                                That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
                           Horatio. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
                                                      [Enter a Messenger.] 2960
                                                              [Exit Messenger.]
                                  That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
                                  Marcellus.[with Bernardo] Longer, longer. 455
                                  Hamlet. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
                        This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her, 1240
                 Hamlet. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
                                           Gertrude. I will not speak with her.
                           Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
                      unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
                                   Gertrude. Came this from Hamlet to her? 1210
                                    To sing a requiem and such rest to her 3570
                                Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her? 3615
                                                                        father?
                                  But you must know, your father lost a father;
                 entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
                                             Claudius. Conceit upon her father.
                              Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
                       Claudius. Not that I think you did not love your father;
                                        Horatio. My lord, the King your father.
                                  To give these mourning duties to your father;
                                                   Requite him for your father.
                                  The apparition comes. I knew your father. 420
                               Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father. 250
                                       My father- methinks I see my father. 390
                                My father's brother, but no more like my father
                                                             Give me my father!
                              Play something like the murther of my father 1670
                                                    Hamlet. The King my father?
              would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
                                                  Most throughly for my father.
                                                   Laertes. Where is my father?
                                     To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
                             The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
                            God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
                                              Nay, come, let's go together. 945
                       Polonius. You know sometimes he walks for hours together
                                Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
                                            First Clown. For none neither. 3470
                                                                        hither?
                                                 Why does the drum come hither?
                                    For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
                                                      dare scarce come thither.
               Hamlet. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other. 3650
                              Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
                                   Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
                       Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
                               'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
                             Hamlet. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
                                 'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother, 280
                                                             Of my true mother.
                                                         Farewell, dear mother.
                                        Hamlet.[within] Mother, mother, mother!
                            But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
                                                            Good night, mother.
                             He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
                                 And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
                                    Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
                                Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
                                Laertes. This is too heavy; let me see another.
                                              Hamlet. Why he more than another?
           Horatio.[aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
                                   That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
                                    As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
                             As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother, 530
                                                           And hurt my brother.
                                                               Hamlet. Murther?
                  Hamlet. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
                                  May give his saying deed; which is no further
                                      Claudius. How may we try it further? 1260
                                  Of those effects for which I did the murther-
                   Father's Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
                               Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
                                            They bore him barefac'd on the bier
                                        Marcellus. O, farewell, honest soldier.
     Hamlet. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier 3410
                                                          Or for some frontier?
                                                 Enter young Osric, a courtier.
                           his kibe. – How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
                                               plunge him into far more choler.
                                 Guildenstern. No, my lord; rather with choler.
                                         For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
                                              And pious action we do sugar o'er
                                                               [Gives a paper.]
                              Of these dilated articles allow. [Gives a paper.]
                               The head and source of all your son's distemper.
                                       Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
                                                             Hamlet. At supper.
             Hamlet. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
                                 That they do know my son, come you more nearer
                                                              Winner and loser?
                                  Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter, 2670
             Hamlet. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after. 2705
                                          kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
                                 Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
          Ophelia. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.
                                                             master's daughter.
                                         Polonius.[aside] Still on my daughter.
                                                                carpenter? 3390
                                                  shipwright, or the carpenter?
              on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
                                                      skull, the King's jester.
                                     That I must be their scourge and minister.
                                     Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
                                      Hamlet. Nay, do not think I flatter; 1935
                               And, like a neutral to his will and matter, 1555
                                                    To hear and see the matter.
          he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter- 3755
                                                            What is the matter?
                                           How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
                                        Hamlet. Now, mother, what's the matter?
                                      Laertes. This nothing's more than matter.
                                         I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
                  think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
                                                           [Reads] the letter.]
                                   To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever 295
                        Horatio. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
                                     O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
                                         That I have longed long to re-deliver.
                                         With an attent ear, till I may deliver
                                                                 Truly deliver.
                               Second Clown. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
                                    O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
                                       May be a devil; and the devil hath power
                                        Giving to you no further personal power
                                          In general synod take away her power;
                              if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer. 3810
                                      Marcellus. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
                                                           [Exit First Player.]
           while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player 1440
                                  My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
       Hamlet. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer? 3440
                                                                    Osric. Sir?
           Hamlet. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
                                                  not so wildly from my affair.
                                       Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
                                                     Hamlet. Are you fair? 1800
                                    But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
                                     Horatio. It is a nipping and an eager air.
                                       Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
        Horatio. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
                    But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
                               Hamlet. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
                                                     Laertes. You mock me, sir.
                                                        First Clown. Mine, sir.
              not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir, 1305
                                              Guildenstern. The King, sir- 2185
                                                       Hamlet. With drink, sir?
                                                    much approve me. Well, sir?
                                           Hamlet. Who commands them, sir? 2800
                                                      Hamlet. Of him, sir. 3780
                                                  First Clown. For no man, sir.
       Hamlet. I am very glad to see you. – [To Bernardo] Good even, sir. —
                                                          Hamlet. Come on, sir.
                      shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir? 2165
         First Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
                                   Rosencrantz.[to Polonius] God save you, sir!
                                 Why the man dies. – I humbly thank you, sir.
                     Polonius. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
                                                         Hamlet. Hear you, sir!
                                                            God bless you, sir!
                                                    Sailor. God bless you, sir.
                                    Norwegian Captain. They are of Norway, sir.
                                  Behind the arras hearing something stir, 2635
               Hamlet. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
                                                          And all we mourn for.
              of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
           Hamlet. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
                                                      That thus he suffers for.
                                         Hamlet. What man dost thou dig it for?
                                       Guildenstern. My lord, we were sent for.
                                Next, your son gone, and he most violent author
                                Mother, good night. – Indeed, this counsellor
           individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor 1480
                      Claudius. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
                                              And dupp'd the chamber door, 2915
                                    Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
                                    Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
                 Polonius. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
                                                                   liquor. 3400
                                  Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err, 2465
                               Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
                  trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
                      Marcellus. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
                             Francisco. You come most carefully upon your hour.
                        And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour, 1095
                                                              Of his behaviour.
                                  That show of such an exercise may colour 1735
                                       To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
                                     Till by some elder masters of known honour
                                    As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
                                                  All. Our duty to your honour.
                                      First Player. I warrant your honour. 1895
                                                 Polonius. Upon my honour- 1475
                                         And in the porches of my ears did pour
        First Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
                           Laertes. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
           Hamlet. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
                amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your
                Hamlet. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
                were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
              [Reads]'High and Mighty, —You shall know I am set naked on your
    Rosencrantz. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
                     believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
                convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
             Hamlet. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
         Hamlet. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
                 Denmark? – What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
      First Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
             whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as 1900
              affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as 1520
              Hamlet. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
                                       With windlasses and with assays of bias,
                                                          Claudius. Alas, alas!
               married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
                                          last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
                                        Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
                                              To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
                                          To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
                                His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
                                  Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
                       Norwegian Captain. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
                                             [Polonius hides behind the arras.]
                                                      This realm dismantled was
                                        'It came to pass, as most like it was.'
       First Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
                                 In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
                                                                       [Reads.]
                Polonius. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful. [Reads.]
                                  Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
                         But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds. 3905
                                     And do not spread the compost on the weeds
                                Than settled age his sables and his weeds, 3220
                                  There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
                                           Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
                                      It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
                                           Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
                           Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands, 2050
                                               Hamlet. Hold off your hands! 715
                               And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands 120
                                         Importing the surrender of those lands
                            Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands 105
                           Rosencrantz. Niggard of question, but of our demands
                                   Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
                                                       As low as to the fiends!
                              A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
                                O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,
                                                      Welcome, my good friends.
                   question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
                     Hamlet. 'By-and-by' is easily said. – Leave me, friends.
                                   As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
                               Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
                                   Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
                                       There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
                                   Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
                                        Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
                                                      And passion in the gods.'
                                 Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,
                                       A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
            Hamlet. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,
                                                                     and Lords.
                                       I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
               to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
                            Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words 1660
                                                       More than in words? 3270
                                                   Hamlet. Words, words, words.
                             Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
                            Feeds on his wonder, keeps, himself in clouds, 2950
                                     Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
                lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
                                      Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places
                      Guildenstern. Heavens make our presence and our practices
                                           Hamlet. What call you the carriages?
                                      For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
                          We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
                   and other Lords attendant, with the Guard carrying torches.]
                                 Hamlet. A king of shreds and patches! – 2500
                         And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes, 1185
                                   The drink, the drink! I am poison'd. [Dies.]
                          Which have solicited- the rest is silence. Dies. 4020
                                                         Nor thine on me! Dies.
                                                           Out of his lunacies.
                                                   Follow my mother. King dies.
                                 Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
                                         Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
        First Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
                              The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
                                   There is no shuffling; there the action lies
                                    The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
                                                 Laertes. None but his enemies.
                         Hamlet. Being thus benetted round with villanies, 3680
                                         Some little time; so by your companies
                                 When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
                                        And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
              there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
                                          Rosencrantz. Both your Majesties 1110
                                  And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
                                   His further gait herein, in that the levies,
                  leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
                                        The very soul, and sweet religion makes
                                         Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
                                      That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
                                   Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
                                  Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
                                     Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
                            Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
                First Player. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
                                     When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
                                 Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes 995
  Polonius. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes 1310
                                        For in the fatness of these pursy times
                                    Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
                                     'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
                                  Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
                                     I stay too long. But here my father comes.
                                              Horatio. Look, my lord, it comes!
                                                     where my abridgment comes.
               the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
                                    But I will delve one yard below their mines
                                No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
                                 If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones, 2475
                        His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones, 2525
                                 Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
                                          Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
                                   Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
                           Hamlet. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
                       Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
                                     And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
                          Voltemand. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
               Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
                strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's 1910
                                                       Ophelia. The King rises.
                              Claudius. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
                Osric. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
                                      And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
                                        As harbingers preceding still the fates
                                      I should have fatted all the region kites
                          At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark. [Writes.]
                                      My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
                                      Yet here she is allow'd her virgin rites,
                                                      Of mighty opposites. 3715
           and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes 3825
                                               Claudius. O, he is mad, Laertes.
                                                        Enter King and Laertes.
                           So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
                                                        Claudius. Good Laertes,
                              Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
                                           Gertrude. Calmly, good Laertes. 2985
                                Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes, 2995
                                     Claudius. What is the cause, Laertes, 2990
                                               What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
                                                             Osric. Of Laertes?
                           And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
                                  And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
                                                 Claudius. If it be so, Laertes
                                     Hamlet the Dane. [Leaps in after Laertes.]
[Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
                                                  Hamlet. That is Laertes, 3555
                                  You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
                                                      Osric. How is't, Laertes?
                 passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
                                    Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes, 115
                             Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
                 Claudius. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
              the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
                                         Into the madness wherein now he raves,
              alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
                                            To the ambassadors of England gives
              should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
                                        Together with remembrance of ourselves.
                                           Gertrude. No, nothing but ourselves.
                                                      After the thing it loves.
                                  Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
                                   In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
                                      Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
                                    By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
                                                              Of mine own eyes.
                    have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
                                Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
                                    He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
                            Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
                                 Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
                                     And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
             kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes; 3180
                      Hamlet. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
                                                                Ophelia.[Sings]
                                                            First Clown.[Sings]
                                To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
                                   And leads the will to desperate undertakings
                                   Richer than that which four successive kings
                                       Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
                                    We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
                                O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
                                                                Ophelia.[sings]
                                                                Ophelia.[sings]
                                                                Ophelia.[sings]
                                                        [Clown digs and] sings.
                                                            First Clown.[sings]
                                          And more above, hath his solicitings,
                                     Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
                                    If with too credent ear you list his songs,
                                O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs! 2975
              lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
        well. – Welcome, good friends. – O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
     Hamlet. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is 2765
                         Polonius. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
           Osric. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
      Rosencrantz. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
                         [Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is) 2875
                                                                  Hamlet. This?
         how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his 3050
                 scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
             him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his 2020
                                   If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his
              Hamlet. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
            great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his 3445
                    not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
                                 In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this, 2955
                                         To make oppression bitter, or ere this
                                     And let us hear Bernardo speak of this. 45
                                    Claudius. Let's further think of this, 3295
                                                              Now, out of this-
                                      Gertrude. To whom do you speak this? 2530
                              Your loneliness. – We are oft to blame in this,
                                Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this. 2665
                                     Of habits evil, is angel yet in this, 2565
                         Hamlet. Look here upon th's picture, and on this, 2445
                                        Polonius. Wherefore should you do this?
                                Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
                    chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
                                          So excellent a king, that was to this
                                  Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this 4070
                                                    Hamlet. But where was this?
                         Gertrude. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this! 2415
                                               What warlike noise is this? 4010
                                           Gertrude. Alack, what noise is this?
                                             Horatio. Why, what a king is this!
                                         Claudius. Do you think 'tis this? 1250
                                                               To tell us this.
                                                     Laertes. Why ask you this?
                                                        it means, say you this:
             Hamlet. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
                                    Claudius. What dost thou mean by this? 2740
                                                                     cum aliis.
                               Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris; 955
                     Osric. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
                                     And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
                                            And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
          man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is, 3360
                                        Most holy and religious fear it is 2285
                       Father's Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
                               your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
               Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
                     comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
                                          What majesty should be, what duty is,
                                  That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
                    Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
                                       That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
                            The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks 1755
                                         As from the body of contraction plucks
                                                    Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
                                      Your visitation shall receive such thanks
                                               Where should we have our thanks?
                                   With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
                       Gertrude. The lady doth protest too much, methinks. 2125
                       Gertrude. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me. Drinks.
                                     Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
                                     Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
                                         Her father and myself (lawful espials)
                                                    All may be well. He kneels.
                              Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
                                      Hamlet. Nay come! again! The Queen falls.
                                                               [Laertes falls.]
                                    Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
                                Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
                 of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
                                        And in this brainish apprehension kills
                                               Hamlet. These tedious old fools!
                                                      As to peace-parted souls.
                             With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls? 685
               king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams. 1355
                          Hamlet. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
                                      'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
                                 Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
                             First Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
                                                            [Spreads his arms.]
                   Laertes. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms 3020
                                          A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
                                  Weigh what convenience both of time and means
                           Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
                                   As checking at his voyage, and that he means
                                                      Horatio. No, by no means!
          themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means 1435
                               show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
                                        Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
                                  Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
                                       Ophelia. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
                                     Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
                                Mad let us grant him then. And now remains 1195
                 Guildenstern. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
                                       Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
                                                  Fortinbras. Let four captains
                                   Hamlet. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
                                       About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
         Polonius. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
                                  To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions 1075
                      Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
                                  Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
                                        Is the main motive of our preparations,
                                       They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
                                                           [Ghost beckons.] 720
                                Larded with many several sorts of reasons, 3670
                                          Claudius. O, for two special reasons,
                                    The fair Ophelia! – Nymph, in thy orisons
                               With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
                                        The insolence of office, and the spurns
           Hamlet. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
                   the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
                              T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps 1675
                                                                    He sleeps.]
                                                But age with his stealing steps
                               But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips 970
                  discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
                                In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
                                           The very faculties of eyes and ears.
                              These words like daggers enter in mine ears. 2490
                       Gentleman. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
                                       Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
                                        And let us once again assail your ears,
                                                  Pours the poison in his ears.
                          That I have? He would drown the stage with tears 1635
                                     Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
                                    The light and careless livery that it wears
              equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
                                       you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
                                                                  thirty years.
                                    That was and is the question of these wars.
                           Ophelia. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
                            Hamlet. Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
                                           [Enter the Players with recorders. ]
                                    Osric. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
                              Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
          souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers 2135
                         Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
                                                     Enter Laertes with others.
                               Hamlet. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
                                   The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
                                    As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
                              And his commission to employ those soldiers, 1165
                                 Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
                           Hamlet. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
                       Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
                                    Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
                                    [Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.] 2015
                                                   But keep a farm and carters.
                                  Hamlet. Do you think I meant country matters?
                                              [Enter a Messenger with letters.]
                              Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
                                                        With true-love showers.
                                                            [Scatters flowers.]
                                            Larded all with sweet flowers; 2900
                   Laertes. I thank you. Keep the door. [Exeunt his Followers.]
                                                                    He answers:
                                         Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
                                                      Flourish for the Players.
                            With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
                                             [Enter four or five Players.] 1500
                                                              [Exeunt Players.]
                                           Guildenstern. There are the players.
                   Rosencrantz. Madam, it so fell out that certain players 1700
                                 Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
                                                     Polonius. Come, sirs. 1605
                                         Most welcome home! Exeunt Ambassadors.
                            Polonius. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
                                                                 Enter Sailors.
                                                           within 's two hours.
                                Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
                                                     To both your honours. 1730
                                                                  favours? 1335
                                The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
                                 Ophelia. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
              First Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
                                      You go not till I set you up a glass 2405
                                     Yea, this solidity and compound mass, 2440
                                    That it might please you to give quiet pass
                                       Hamlet. Then came each actor on his ass-
                               So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
                                      Without debatement further, more or less,
                                                Gertrude. This is mere madness;
                                    Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
                                    And I the matter will reword; which madness
                                          That I essentially am not in madness,
                                    Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
                                And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
                                         And that shall lend a kind of easiness
                    Horatio. Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
                                     Answer, and think upon this business. 1175
                                               shall be the end of my business.
                                         She turns to favour and to prettiness.
                                     Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
                                           It lifted up it head and did address
                                  Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress 230
                                        Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
                                          As one incapable of her own distress,
                                   Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
                                   Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
                                     And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
                                   Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
                          Hamlet. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
                                      Why you proceeded not against these feats
                       Hamlet. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
                                          Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
                                      With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
                                  Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
                                    Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
                                   [The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
                                           Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
                             With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
                                    And drive his purpose on to these delights.
                                          But I do prophesy th' election lights
                                                   All. Lights, lights, lights!
      Hamlet. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights 1380
                              And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
                           remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
                                  Free me so far in your most generous thoughts
                  Rosencrantz. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
                                                        shame and the odd hits.
                                      That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
                                        As he is very potent with such spirits,
                                   But look, amazement on thy mother sits. 2510
                                          But mere implorators of unholy suits,
                                   O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
                                 First Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
                             Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults, 2345
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet, Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, Voltemand, Cornelius, Lords, and Attendants].
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum, Colours, and Attendants. 4025
                   Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some Attendants].
                               [Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].] 1275
                               Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
                                  Claudius. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
                                                           [Exeunt Attendants.]
                                                                       tenants.
                           As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents; 3265
                               Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements, 2520
                               That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
                                   And even the like precurse of fierce events,
                                      Between the pass and fell incensed points
                                   And there I see such black and grained spots
                       seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
                                  Wherein they say you shine, Your sum of parts
                              Without the which we are pictures or mere beasts;
                  question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
                                  That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
                                   Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
                                    To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
                                                                        clouts.
                               Hamlet. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
                                            Claudius. Bring him before us. 2725
                              Rosencrantz.[with Guildenstern] We will haste us.
                                                                      Leave us.
                                  Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
                                     This unprevailing woe, and think of us 310
                                 Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
                                                      But you shall hear. Thus:
                                 With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
                                           'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
                                  What is the reason that you use me thus? 3635
                                                        It could not move thus.
                                                    further trade with us? 2215
                           Claudius. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
                                       If that his Majesty would aught with us,
                             Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus 1100
                                 Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
                                         Claudius. How long hath she been thus?
                                       Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
                                    [Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.]
                                              [Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.]
                                                                      Polonius.
                                                       Enter King and Polonius.
                                                     Exeunt King and Polonius].
                                                      Enter Queen and Polonius.
                                     Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
                                     Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
                                                             [Enter Polonius. ]
                                                                Enter Polonius.
                                                                Enter Polonius.
                                                         [Enter Polonius.] 2250
                                                                Enter Polonius.
                                   [Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.] 2420
                                       Claudius. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
                                                   Claudius. Where is Polonius?
                           [Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
                    Claudius. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
                                                               [Exit Polonius.]
                                                               Exit [Polonius].
                                                             [Exit [Polonius].]
                                                                     Marcellus?
                                                   Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
                                                   Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
                                          If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
                                          Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
                           Bernardo. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
                          Speak of it! Stay, and speak! – Stop it, Marcellus!
                                    For your desire to know what is between us,
                          When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
                        Have of your audience been most free and bounteous. 580
                     it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
                question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
                                          Yet have I in me something dangerous,
                                       Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
                                    Be you content to lend your patience to us,
                                     Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
                                                               Of blue Olympus.
       Polonius. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
                                        Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
                   Claudius. Thou still hast been the father of good news. 1130
                                                          strumpet. What news ?
                                                            How now? What news?
                      Hamlet. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
                         This was your husband. Look you now what follows. 2455
                                                      This presence knows, 3865
                      Marcellus. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
                                  Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
                                   Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.
                                                              [The cock crows.]
                                Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
                                       That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
                             And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows 2435
               and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
                                     As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
                                   reputation and profit, was better both ways.
                                       Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
                     own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
                                      On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
         Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at 2905
          Hamlet. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
                                  They are not near my conscience; their defeat
                                   That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
                                      Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
              But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
                                 Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
                               Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat, 3225
                                                                        I ha't!
                                                                  Hamlet. What?
                                 Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
                                          [Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
         How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that 3425
                 knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
                                       As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
                                Polonius.[to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
                                                        First Clown. E'en that.
                               Are most select and generous, chief in that. 560
                                       And for my soul, what can it do to that,
                                       A villain kills my father; and for that,
                                     Laertes. How now? What noise is that? 3030
                                                    Ophelia. Do you doubt that?
             now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that 3520
                                      (As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
                tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
                                                             I would know that.
                 Polonius. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
                                      Hamlet. I must to England; you know that?
    Rosencrantz. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
                beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
                                                     Rosencrantz. Believe what?
             needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what 1830
                 dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
         Ophelia. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
                                 Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
                          Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
                                     I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
                                    Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
           Hamlet. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
                     all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
                               To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt. 2085
                            Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
                                                    Is thought-sick at the act.
                                         At gaming, swearing, or about some act
                                                            Hamlet. Such an act
                                                    Hamlet. What did you enact?
                            Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
                                Gentleman. She is importunate, indeed distract.
                                        Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
                                    That are but mutes or audience to this act,
                                         But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
                                                     Gertrude. Ah me, what act,
                                      Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
                                       Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
                                          The leperous distilment; whose effect
                                     That we find out the cause of this effect-
                                           By letters congruing to that effect,
                              'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
                                    Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
                                        Must give us pause. There's the respect
                                                 As will not leave their tinct.
        Polonius.[aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
                                        To lay our service freely at your feet,
                                                 [Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]
                                                     For and a shrouding sheet;
                                   O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
                                     (As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
                                                      For such a guest is meet.
                                                 For such a guest is meet. 3460
                                When in one line two crafts directly meet. 2615
                 counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
                                  And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
                                                   Methought it was very sweet;
                                             Most necessary 'tis that we forget
                                               Horatio. Good my lord, be quiet.
                                  Grating so harshly all his days of quiet 1685
                                                      And put it in his pocket!
                                                                         Hamlet
                                                                         Hamlet
                                                        Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
                                                       Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
                                                  How does my good Lord Hamlet?
                    Ophelia. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
                                 As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
                             I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet. 3105
                                 Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet, 610
                                                        Marcellus. Lord Hamlet!
                                        Gentlemen.[within] Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
                              That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
                                    Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
                                The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet. 3940
               Claudius. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet, 290
                                      This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
                                 Messenger. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet: 3170
                Claudius. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet, 3900
                                    Claudius. How fares our cousin Hamlet? 1975
                 Gertrude. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet! 3965
                                                          Speak to her, Hamlet.
                                           Claudius. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
                                                                  Enter Hamlet.
                                                                  Enter Hamlet.
                                                                  Enter Hamlet.
                                                                  Enter Hamlet.
                               Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet. 3870
                                     Claudius. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
                                                          Ghost beckons Hamlet.
                         Gertrude. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
                                                         No more, sweet Hamlet!
                                                      Gertrude. Hamlet, Hamlet!
                               Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
                                                 [Exeunt [all but Hamlet].] 475
                                                       [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
                                                  [Exeunt all but Hamlet.] 2820
                                               Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
                                                Gertrude. Why, how now, Hamlet?
                                                          Claudius. Ay, Hamlet.
                                                          But you'll be secret?
                                                          The Queen’s closet.
                          Polonius. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
                                Ophelia. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
                                        And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
                               Pays homage to us, – thou mayst not coldly set
                                       And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
                                     And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
                                                   Here's yet some liquor left.
                                         Polonius. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
                    Hamlet. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift 765
           Second Clown. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
                             From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
                                 By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
                                  That lend a tyrannous and a damned light 1535
                     Player Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
              prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
                 Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,' 930
                                   Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
                                  With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
                                                    Bernardo. Well, good night.
                               The death I gave him. So again, good night. 2580
                                             Francisco. Give you good night. 20
                                       In the dead vast and middle of the night
                                   Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
                                      'Tis now the very witching time of night,
                        Horatio. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
                                    Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
                                                   Hold you the watch to-night?
                                             Hamlet. I will watch to-night. 460
                                  Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
                                       Let us impart what we have seen to-night
                          Hamlet. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
                    Marcellus. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night? 30
                                        That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
                                        And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
                               Horatio. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
                                    With us to watch the minutes of this night,
                            Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
                                     Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright
                                      Hamlet. Why, right! You are in the right!
                                                      Claudius. It falls right.
                                          That ever I was born to set it right!
                                      Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
                                                   And vanish'd from our sight.
                                     If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
                                               Fortinbras. Where is this sight?
                              Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight, 2470
                            And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught, —
                                                        I never gave you aught.
                                               Polonius. Marry, well bethought!
                            Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
                                    But answer made it none. Yet once methought
                                 But in our circumstance and course of thought,
                                Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
                              With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
                             Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
              sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
                        Hamlet. Why, then the Polack never will defend it. 2810
                 Hamlet. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
                                            Reynaldo. My lord, I did intend it.
                  imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
                                                          Hamlet. So be it! 855
                                                          very liberal conceit.
                                     Could force his soul so to his own conceit
                  excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
                                    So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
                                    A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
                                       It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
                                                     Horatio. Never believe it.
                                                     Hamlet. Do not believe it.
                            Horatio. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
                                         And, sister, as the winds give benefit
                                       Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
                                        And draw you into madness? Think of it.
                              Hamlet. O, throw away the worser part of it, 2560
              I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
                                                     To let you know of it. 435
                                     And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
                                      Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
                                         repair hither and say you are not fit.
                                     We would not understand what was most fit,
                                                    And will not wrong it. 3890
                                Than your particular demands will touch it. 960
                                        If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
                                             Osric. A hit, a very palpable hit.
                              Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it, 195
                                                         But do not go with it!
                                    Horatio. It beckons you to go away with it,
                Hamlet. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it? 865
       Hamlet. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it. —
                                                Hamlet. No, you will reveal it.
                                      Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
               bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
                                                Horatio. Good my lord, tell it.
                                 To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
                                         So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
                                             A table and flagons of wine on it.
                                       He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
                                               Hamlet. Did you not speak to it?
                                  Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
                                                        But truly I do fear it.
                                           Fortinbras. Let us haste to hear it,
       Guildenstern. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
                                  Father's Ghost. I am thy father's spirit, 745
                              The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit. 4015
                                          And am most sensibly in grief for it,
                                   Thus much the business is: we have here writ
                                                          Hamlet. Whose was it?
                                     Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
                                      And I beseech you instantly to visit 1120
                                    Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
                                     The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
                                                Horatio. Heaven will direct it.
                                   Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
                          Hamlet. It will not speak. Then will I follow it. 695
                                       It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
                                                                          Exit.
                                                                          Exit.
                                                                          Exit.
                                                                          Exit.
                                                                          Exit.
                                        Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me. Exit.
                      Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King. Exit. 1680
                         My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth! Exit. 2855
                                                       Laertes. Farewell. Exit.
                               Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun. Exit.
                               Words without thoughts never to heaven go. Exit.
                                         they are. To a nunnery, go. Exit. 1840
                                                 Polonius. I will say so. Exit.
                                Norwegian Captain. God b' wi' you, sir. [Exit.]
                                This physic but prolongs thy sickly days. Exit.
                                           ladies. Good night, good night. Exit
                                                     Give you good night. Exit.
                                            But that this folly douts it. Exit.
                         To give them seals never, my soul, consent! Exit. 2275
                                         We beg your hearing patiently. [Exit.]
                                                 Claudius. We will try it. 1270
                                                    Claudius. I do not think't.
                               O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
                            Hamlet. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
                                       It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
                                        Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
                                           So full of artless jealousy is guilt
                  calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
                                                            Of general assault.
                                               Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
                                                              [Exit Attendant.]
                                        [Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
                            Ophelia. Will he tell us what this show meant? 2035
                               And they can well on horseback; but this gallant
                                 Hamlet. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
                           Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same cov'nant 110
                                            Osric. I know you are not ignorant-
                                    And I believe it is a fetch of warrant. 990
                                    Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
                             And here give up ourselves, in the full bent, 1115
                                    Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
                                  Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
                                                     And call it accident. 3205
                              Hamlet. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
            Horatio.[aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
                                   Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
                                          How in my words somever she be shent,
                                         A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
                            Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament; 2090
                                               Hamlet. Sir, I lack advancement.
                                  I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement 3885
                                                              Hamlet. Judgment!
                                  I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
                                    Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
                                 And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
                         Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment. 555
                                But do not dull thy palm with entertainment 550
                                       And enterprises of great pith and moment
                                         Is not to stir without great argument,
                                  This grave shall have a living monument. 3645
                  Hamlet. Why, man, they did make love to this employment! 3710
                                       Contagious blastments are most imminent.
                                         Which is not tomb enough and continent
                                        Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
                                                                         spent.
                                       Haply the seas, and countries different,
                  very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
                                        Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
                                           Against the which a moiety competent
                                    My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
                                    Do I impart toward you. For your intent 315
                                                        To give it due content.
                                Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
                                           Makes mouths at the invisible event,
                               Of thinking too precisely on th' event, – 2830
                                     Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
                                              Hamlet. Who is to be buried in't?
       Polonius.[aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't. —
               Claudius. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
               sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
                                     That has no relish of salvation in't- 2375
                              This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
                       Hamlet. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
                                                                          on't.
                   Ophelia. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
                                        It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
                                                        What think you on't? 70
                                  From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
                                                            I have sworn't. 850
                      Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt 2645
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                         Exeunt
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                                                        Exeunt.
                                     To him from whom you brought them. Exeunt.
                           Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go. Exeunt.
                                      No reckoning made, but sent to my account
                                 Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount, 2295
                                                             First Clown. To't.
                                                     Laertes. I will do't! 3285
                          epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
                                            That thou so many princes at a shot
                                  Osric. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
                                 Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
                                  Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
                                                                           not.
                                      A brother's murther! Pray can I not, 2320
          Hamlet. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
                                                       Laertes. O, fear me not!
         Claudius. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
                                       To you in satisfaction; but if not, 3085
                                 Marcellus.[with Horatio] My lord, we will not.
                         Messenger. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
                                  Of all their conference. If she find him not,
         Hamlet. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
           Hamlet. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not. 1615
                                               Guildenstern. My lord, I cannot.
                                            Guildenstern. Believe me, I cannot.
            Osric. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
                                                         Hamlet. Sir, I cannot.
        Ophelia. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot 2930
                                        Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
                him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
                                          Looking before and after, gave us not
                                                 Hamlet. Nay, that follows not.
                                                                        it not?
                                           Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
                                      Try what repentance can. What can it not?
                      Father's Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
                                                                  might it not?
              continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
         Hamlet. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
                                                    insert in't, could you not?
                              Shall you my son. You have me, have you not? 1020
                        Horatio. In what particular thought to work I know not;
                                                       Hamlet. Nay, I know not.
                  Hamlet. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
                                           Rosencrantz. No indeed are they not.
                                     I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
                                        With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
                          Marcellus.[with Bernardo] My lord, from head to foot.
                                                    Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
                       Hamlet. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
                                          Young men will do't if they come to't
                         as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't. 1290
                              Horatio. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
                                                     'As by lot, God wot,' 1495
                                               Father's Ghost. I find thee apt;
                                                       A face without a heart,'
                                      The head is not more native to the heart,
                                  In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
                    There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
                               This something-settled matter in his heart, 1865
                                                     And I am sick at heart. 10
                                       If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
                                 And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
                                    It warms the very sickness in my heart 3190
                                                      Hamlet. Nay, but swear't.
                              The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
                                        But farewell it, for I will use no art.
                                            Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
                                    I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
                                  We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
                       sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
      Osric. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart 3745
                                        Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
                                       Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
                                     Gertrude. More matter, with less art. 1190
      Guildenstern. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
             Polonius. My lord, I will use them according to their desert. 1600
                                      Lest with this piteous action you convert
                   a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.
                                          To make it truster of your own report
                                            And gave you such a masterly report
                                          And with a look so piteous in purport
                                      When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
                                  That she should lock herself from his resort,
                                           As it is common for the younger sort
                            Claudius. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
                                  To hear of it. They are here about the court,
                                 That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
                Father's Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast, 780
                           'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-' 1525
                           My news shall be the fruit to that great feast. 1140
                             Such love must needs be treason in my breast. 2070
                                    Fell into a sadness, then into a fast, 1245
              Hamlet. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast? 915
            will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last 3500
                                            By laboursome petition, and at last
                               All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
                                To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
                                                       Laertes. A Norman was't?
                                          A couch for luxury and damned incest.
                        the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest. 3465
                              May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
                                         And when you are desirous to be blest,
                 Rosencrantz. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
                                                Hamlet. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
                                            Player Queen. O, confound the rest!
                                   And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
                                That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test, 2545
                                                      Give me one poor request.
                                      This heavy-headed revel east and west 645
                               To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
                                            The ocean, overpeering of his list,
                                                       Hamlet. Ay, marry, is't;
                                                                   Enter Ghost.
                                                                   Enter Ghost.
                                                                    Exit Ghost.
                                                              [Exit Ghost.] 165
                                                                    Exit Ghost.
                                                      Hamlet. Alas, poor ghost!
                              As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
                                    Laertes. And so have I a noble father lost;
                                  Whose motive in this case should stir me most
                   servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
                                 She married. O, most wicked speed, to post 360
                              [Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].]
                                  None wed the second but who killed the first.
                                      dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
                                         When second husband let me be accurst!
                                     Laertes. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
                                         Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
                                     So to seduce! – won to his shameful lust
                                      Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
                             Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust 810
                                   That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
                                        And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
                                       them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
                            That inward breaks, and shows no cause without 2815
                  Laertes. Where is this king? – Sirs, staid you all without.
                                          The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
                                And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
                                    Make you to ravel all this matter out, 2590
                       When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out 2265
                                                      Hamlet. My fate cries out
                                           By indirections find directions out.
                                             philosophy could find it out. 1450
                                                        Treachery! Seek it out.
                                       The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
                                                     Horatio. Not when I saw't.
                                                                     it. Adieu.
                                     I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
            Hamlet. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
              The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You 2150
          them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou 3120
                                                     I'll rant as well as thou.
                                                        For husband shalt thou-
               Hamlet. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
                                                            'Thus didest thou.'
                                                          So, proceed you. 1540
                 inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
                                                         Who hath reliev'd you?
                                        Horatio. It would have much amaz'd you.
                                Moreover that we much did long to see you, 1085
                               To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
                                 To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
                 Polonius. Ophelia, walk you here. – Gracious, so please you,
           there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you 2745
                          Gertrude. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
                                  My too much changed son. – Go, some of you,
                                                          my leave of you. 1315
                                           Claudius. He made confession of you;
                                      Where you may see the inmost part of you.
         given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you 1835
                                                        Horatio. I beseech you.
                                                 Hamlet. I do beseech you. 2235
                                     Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
                      Guildenstern. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
                   Hamlet. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
                                   And he to England shall along with you. 2280
                                    And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
                                        Gertrude. Alas, how is't with you, 2515
                                      Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
                   And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi' you. 3075
      Hamlet. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you; 1370
                                  Had it th' ability of life to thank you. 4040
                                                                      Mark you,
                             Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you- 3995
                               It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you. 885
                                    Polonius. My lord, I have news to tell you.
                                    And that in way of caution- I must tell you
                                                  But let me hear from you. 485
                         Claudius. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
                                           Hamlet. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
                           Rosencrantz.[with Guildenstern] We'll wait upon you.
                   Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
             for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again. – What do you
                                                       What I have said to you.
                         Polonius. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you? 575
                                       With all my love I do commend me to you;
          First Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
                                                           hath sent me to you.
                           May do t' express his love and friending to you, 940
                                                            This marvel to you.
                           Claudius. Laertes, was your father dear to you? 3250
               Hamlet. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
                                 So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
                my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you
          Ophelia. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
              Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
               Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
                                                             have sent for you.
                          Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
                                   Before my daughter told me), what might you,
                                                                I'll visit you.
                         You, as your business and desires shall point you, 875
              Claudius. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you. 2935
                                         Hamlet. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
                                                            Hamlet. I pray you.
                                                        Hamlet. Arm'd, say you?
                         Rosencrantz.[aside to Guildenstern] What say you? 1385
                             Come. [They play.] Another hit. What say you? 3935
                                                  Claudius. Who shall stay you?
                                               Gertrude. I shall obey you; 1725
                 the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
                                     Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
                                Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
                                                 Second Clown. But is this law?
                        First Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law. 3365
                                      Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw
                                         But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
                                    Will not debate the question of this straw.
                                                    know a hawk from a handsaw.
                                           Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
                                    High on a stage be placed to the view; 4045
                       Bernardo. It was about to speak, when the cock crew. 170
                               Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew 3665
                   Horatio. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
                  But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
                                        Hamlet. A dream itself is but a shadow.
                                              it is but a shadow's shadow. 1360
                                                   And I a maid at your window,
                                     But I have that within which passeth show-
                              Not of that dye which their investments show, 615
                 through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
                                   The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
               Claudius.[rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below. 2380
                                  A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
                                                   Therefore let's follow. 3345
                             The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
             of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd for't. These are now
                                                Claudius. Not that I know. 1255
                                                 And tell you what I know. 2315
                                               How should I your true-love know
                                    Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
                                But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
                          Polonius. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
                                   And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
                                 And ever three parts coward, – I do not know
                                               Ophelia. My lord, I do not know,
                                     It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
                            Now what my love is, proof hath made you know; 2060
                                                            and then, you know,
                                            Laertes. My lord, I'll hit him now.
                                                 Hamlet. What's the matter now?
                                     How to forget that learning; but, sir, now
                                                         Hamlet. What hour now?
                                                           I be so able as now.
                                 (Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
                                           His beard was as white as snow, 3070
                                            Hamlet. If she should break it now!
                                                                   See you now-
                                   Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
                                                 Laertes. Have at you now! 3955
                                 And lose the name of action. – Soft you now!
                                   And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
                                      See what a grace was seated on this brow;
                        sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
                                            Does by their own insinuation grow.
                                          Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
                                    And in the cup an union shall he throw 3915
                                 And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
                      Hamlet. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
                                      Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
                                 Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
                                    That it went hand in hand even with the vow
                                          To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
                                  That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
               translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
                              Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May! 3035
                              With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
                                                                 Bernardo. Say-
                                 How does your honour for this many a day? 1785
                               Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
                                         And do such bitter business as the day
                                  And it must follow, as the night the day, 565
                                 From the first corse till he that died to-day,
                                    No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
                                           I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
                               (Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day, 2910
                                   The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
                                  The changeling never known. Now, the next day
                                   That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
                                            Laertes. Say you so? Come on. Play.
                                     Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
                              The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay, 1765
                                      That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
                                                   The hart ungalled play; 2160
                    Ophelia. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
                   Ophelia. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
                                      Claudius. What do you call the play? 2130
                                             Polonius. Give o'er the play. 2155
                                         But if you hold it fit, after the play
                                                               Prepare to play.
                                               Laertes before you fall to play.
                                         Hamlet. Madam, how like you this play?
                                    For they are actions that a man might play;
                                             Laertes. Come, my lord. They play.
                                    And will this brother's wager frankly play.
                                  Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
                                           Let Hercules himself do what he may,
                                         My soul is full of discord and dismay.
                                                 Ophelia. Madam, I wish it may.
                                That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
                                   And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
                                                        Look you, I'll go pray.
                                                                           say-
                                                                        O, say!
       Polonius. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
                                    Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.
                          Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
                answer as I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
                                                    i' th' university, you say?
                   gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
                                         First Clown. Very strangely, they say.
                                            Claudius. Give me some light! Away!
                                                      Thus runs the world away.
                                       Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
                                         Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
                                   And hit the woundless air. – O, come away!
                                          Claudius. O Gertrude, come away! 2655
                                   And at the sound it shrunk in haste away 430
                                    Polonius. Away, I do beseech you, both away
                                          If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
                                                 Bernardo. See, it stalks away!
                     Hamlet. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away! 2535
                                             Hamlet. Do the boys carry it away?
                                                    Osric. Nothing neither way.
                                For bearers of this greeting to old Norway, 235
                                     Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
                             Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway? 1150
                                  They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
                       Polonius. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
                                                             Here in the lobby.
                                                     the stair, into the lobby.
                                top of my bent. – I will come by-and-by. 2260
                           Hamlet. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by. 3945
                              That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by 2505
                                             The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
                                           With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
                                           No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
                                          That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
             so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, 3795
                                           Here stooping to your clemency, 2040
                                               That he is open to incontinency.
                                                     Hamlet. Well, God-a-mercy.
                                 To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
                                     Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
                                    Marcellus. We have sworn, my lord, already.
                                                          Thou know'st already.
                                                             the players ready.
                                                           make you ready. 1920
                                                      One word more, good lady.
                                             (Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,
                                              Hamlet. How is it with you, lady?
                                             Claudius. How do you, pretty lady?
                                              Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
                                          That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
                                           For if the King like not the comedy,
            Polonius. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
                                              Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
                  Rosencrantz. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
                        Claudius. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
                                  The natural gates and alleys of the body, 805
                                Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
          Hamlet. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
                                                            All my smooth body.
                                       And makes each petty artire in this body
                                  With which she followed my poor father's body
                                       Unto the voice and yielding of that body
                                  Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy. 2180
                                   But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
                                                Guildenstern. But we both obey,
              ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
                                                                     they? 1415
               Hamlet. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
                Hamlet. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they
                                                           This warlike volley.
                                                              Hamlet. Why, 1485
                                                                   Hamlet. Why,
                                                                   Hamlet. Why?
                                     Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. 920
                                                        humanity so abominably.
                                                   Hamlet. I embrace it freely,
                   Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely, 3705
                                                         Hamlet. How strangely?
                              Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
      Rosencrantz. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing; Confederate season, else no creature seeing; Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected, With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected, Thy natural magic and dire property On wholesome life usurp immediately.
                                                                      waterfly?
                                        Hamlet. What, look'd he frowningly. 445
                                          argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
                           Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly- 3655
                                  Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily. 2870
                                                          Yes, faith, heartily.
                              Hamlet. I am sorry they offend you, heartily; 880
                       Hamlet. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally. 3950
                                       tongue? You will do't, sir, really. 3775
                                      And for your rapier most especially, 3240
                         For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
                                          Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
                                 Claudius. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
                                                        Most free in his reply.
                 appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
                           Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
                                      You do not understand yourself so clearly
            Hamlet. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly. 3750
Guildenstern. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly. 2230
                             With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
                                                  Horatio. Most constantly. 450
                                     Where we shall find him most conveniently.
              Polonius. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
                               Polonius. And the Queen too, and that presently.
                                      Been struck so to the soul that presently
                  That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly 980
                                                Directly seasons him his enemy.
                                            His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
               Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
           Hamlet. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my 1365
                 feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
                  pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
               I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
               willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
                I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
                 heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
         First Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
                                         And hath abatements and delays as many
             Hamlet. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
                    Hamlet. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
                                                 (Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
   First Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy 3495
                                    Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy, 210
                                        And there did seem in him a kind of joy
                                      Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
                                         Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
                                            The violence of either grief or joy
                                   [Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
                                   Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
                                   Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
                        Guildenstern. Happy in that we are not over-happy. 1330
                spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
                                         As England was his faithful tributary,
                          Gertrude. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
                                       When in your motion you are hot and dry-
                 glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
                                             Well ratified by law and heraldry,
                                     And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
Laertes. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
                                          And our vain blows malicious mockery.
                                           He likewise gives a frock or livery,
                                       Purpose is but the slave to memory, 2080
                                           And these few precepts in thy memory
                                               Yea, from the table of my memory
                                                  Hamlet. Sir, a whole history.
                                       That are so fortified against our story,
                         Polonius. At 'closes in the consequence'– Ay, marry!
    Hamlet. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry? 2005
                                That does afflict our natures. I am sorry. 1065
                                 And who in want a hollow friend doth try, 2100
                                                       Of man and country- 1000
                                         A station like the herald Mercury 2450
                 there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
                                 With this regard their currents turn awry 1780
          Hamlet. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
                               To the next abstinence; the next more easy; 2570
                                       Is not this something more than fantasy?
                                  Marcellus. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
                                                               Hamlet. Ecstasy?
                                            This bodiless creation ecstasy 2540
                                            For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
                              And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
                                                              Than to entreaty.
                    Claudius. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety, —
                                                        tragedians of the city.
                                           Of violent birth, but poor validity;
                                    And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
                gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
                                             In neither aught, or in extremity.
                                        From me, whose love was of that dignity
                                        Passing through nature to eternity. 275
                                                 To his unmast'red importunity.
                                That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
                                      [Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity, 2920
                                      For women's fear and love holds quantity,
                            As in their birth, – wherein they are not guilty,
                                            If you desire to know the certainty
                                                          To youth and liberty.
                                      That they may seem the taints of liberty,
                                     That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
           Hamlet. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
                                          That live and feed upon your Majesty.
                                To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
           Hamlet. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
                                               a thing to you from his Majesty.
                                        The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
        Ophelia. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
                                                                    musty. 2225
                                 Hamlet. How comes it? Do they grow rusty? 1425
                                                            Over the nasty sty!
                                                      discourse to your beauty.
                                     As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
                                      And we did think it writ down in our duty
 Cornelius.[with Voltemand] In that, and all things, will we show our duty. 240
                                Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
                                         Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
                                       Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy 3245
                         Gertrude. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.
                                                           [Enter Rosencrantz.]
                                                            Hamlet. Buzz, buzz!
