A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much 3685
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
A brother's murther! Pray can I not, 2320
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
According to the phrase or the addition
A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
A combination and a form indeed
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
Act III, Scene 1.
Act III, Scene 2.
Act III, Scene 3.
Act III, Scene 4.
Act II, Scene 1.
Act II, Scene 2.
Act I, Scene 1.
Act I, Scene 2.
Act I, Scene 3.
Act I, Scene 4.
Act I, Scene 5.
Act IV, Scene 1.
Act IV, Scene 2.
Act IV, Scene 3.
Act IV, Scene 4.
Act IV, Scene 5.
Act IV, Scene 6.
Act IV, Scene 7.
Act V, Scene 1.
Act V, Scene 2.
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes, 2995
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule, 2495
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward? 1645
Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me. Exit.
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
A double blessing is a double grace;
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
A face without a heart,'
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature, 305
Affront Ophelia.
[A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.]
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
After the thing it loves.
Against the which a moiety competent
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
Alack, and fie for shame!
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
All. Gentlemen!
All. Lights, lights, lights!
All. No, let's come in!
All. Our duty to your honour.
All. Treason! treason! 3980
All. We will, we will!
All flaxen was his poll.
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
All given to mine ear.
All in the morning bedtime,
All may be well. He kneels.
All my smooth body.
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be 3575
Among a mineral of metals base,
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught, —
And I a maid at your window,
And I am sick at heart. 10
And I believe it is a fetch of warrant. 990
And I beseech you instantly to visit 1120
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
And I do think- or else this brain of mine
And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And I the matter will reword; which madness
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And You must put me in your heart for friend,
And after we will both our judgments join 1965
And all we mourn for.
And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
And, as I think, they have already order
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And, as you said, and wisely was it said, 2310
And at our more consider'd time we'll read,
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away 430
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
And bear it to the chapel. 2685
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all, 465
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand 2325
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven, 1570
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
And break your own neck down. 2600
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And, but that great command o'ersways the order, 3560
And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
And call it accident. 3205
And call the noblest to the audience. 4055
And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
And carriage of the article design'd,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
And could of men distinguish, her election
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee 1940
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
And do such bitter business as the day
And do't the speedier that you may direct me
And draw you into madness? Think of it.
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
And dupp'd the chamber door, 2915
And each particular hair to stand on end 755
And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
And end his being. That done, he lets me go, 1055
And enterprises of great pith and moment
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
And ever three parts coward, – I do not know
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And foreign mart for implements of war; 90
And for his death no wind shall breathe
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And for your rapier most especially, 3240
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more. 4060
And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
And gave you such a masterly report
And gem of all the nation.
And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
And hath abatements and delays as many
And hath shipped me intil the land, 3415
And hears it roar beneath.
And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent, 1115
And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
And he to England shall along with you. 2280
And his commission to employ those soldiers, 1165
And his sandal shoon.
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
And hit the woundless air. – O, come away!
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven? 2365
And hurt my brother.
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
And in his grave rain'd many a tear. 3045
And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
And in the cup an union shall he throw 3915
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth 525
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And in this brainish apprehension kills
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And it must follow, as the night the day, 565
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
And lay your hands again upon my sword.
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
And let him know so.
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall 2425
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
And let them know both what we mean to do
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this. 45
And let us once again assail your ears,
And, like a man to double business bound,
And, like a neutral to his will and matter, 1555
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
And live the purer with the other half,
And lose the name of action. – Soft you now!
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And makes each petty artire in this body
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And many such-like as's of great charge, 3695
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work; 2610
And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up; 3325
And more above, hath his solicitings,
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
And my imaginations are as foul
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And not have strew'd thy grave.
And nothing is at a like goodness still; 3260
And not where I had aim'd them.
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi' you. 3075
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
And our affairs from England come too late.
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And passion in the gods.'
And pious action we do sugar o'er
And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
And prey on garbage. 795
And prologue to the omen coming on, 140
And put it in his pocket!
And reason panders will. 2480
And recks not his own rede. 535
And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And set a double varnish on the fame
And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows 2435
And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour, 1095
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
And sure I am two men there are not living
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes, 1185
And tell you what I know. 2315
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands 120
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And that in way of caution- I must tell you
And that our drift look through our bad performance.
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between 2385
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again, 330
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
And there I see such black and grained spots
And there assume some other, horrible form 705
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
And these few precepts in thy memory
And they can well on horseback; but this gallant
And they in France of the best rank and station
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more. 3165
And thirty dozen moons with borrowed sheen
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And thus a while the fit will work on him. 3630
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
And thus the native hue of resolution
And thy best graces spend it at thy will! 265
And thy commandment all alone shall live 840
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
And to the last bended their light on me.
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge 825
And vanish'd from our sight.
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And we cast away moan.
And we did think it writ down in our duty
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? 370
And what's in prayer but this twofold force, 2330
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
And when you are desirous to be blest,
And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And who in want a hollow friend doth try, 2100
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
And will he not come again? 3065
And will he not come again?
And will not let belief take hold of him
And will not wrong it. 3890
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
And with a larger tether may he walk
And with a look so piteous in purport
And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
And with no less nobility of love
And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
A noise within.
A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
Anon, as patient as the female dove
Answer, and think upon this business. 1175
An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
An understanding simple and unschool'd; 300
A pickaxe and a spade, a spade, 3435
Appears before them and with solemn march 410
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love. 2075
Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid
Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
Are joyfully return'd.
Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
Are most select and generous, chief in that. 560
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
A room in the Castle.
Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.
As England was his faithful tributary,
As I do thee. Something too much of this I
(As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
(As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
A sable silver'd.
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
As are companions noted and most known
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
'As by lot, God wot,' 1495
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
A scullion!
As day does to your eye.
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
As did that one; and that, in my regard,
A second time I kill my husband dead
As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
As fits a king's remembrance.
As from the body of contraction plucks
As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
As he in his particular act and place 510
As he is very potent with such spirits,
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so. 1050
(As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder 1560
[Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is) 2875
As if I had never been such.
As if he had been loosed out of hell 1040
As if increase of appetite had grown
As if it some impartment did desire
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
As infinite as man may undergo-
As in their birth, – wherein they are not guilty,
A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As it doth well appear unto our state,
As it hath us'd to do- that I have found
As it is common for the younger sort
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
As level as the cannon to his blank,
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As low as to the fiends!
As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
As make your bouts more violent to that end- 3305
As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
As of a father; for let the world take note
As oft as any passion under heaven
As one incapable of her own distress,
As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing; 1945
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
A station like the herald Mercury 2450
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents; 3265
As therein are set down.
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
As to expend your time with us awhile
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
As to peace-parted souls.
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother, 530
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
As will not leave their tinct.
A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
A table and flagons of wine on it.
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
At his head a grass-green turf,
At his heels a stone.
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark. [Writes.]
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
A very noble youth. Mark.
A very, very- pajock.
A villain kills my father; and for that,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Awake the god of day; and at his warning, 175
Away! for everything is seal'd and done 2770
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
Be all my sins rememb'red.
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage; 4065
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come. 325
Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
Before You visit him, to make inquire
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
Before my daughter told me), what might you,
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
Behind the arras hearing something stir, 2635
Being a thing immortal as itself? 700
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star, 660
Believe so much in him, that he is young,
Bernardo. Have you had quiet guard?
Bernardo. He.
Bernardo. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
Bernardo. I have seen nothing.
Bernardo. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.
Bernardo. I think it be no other but e'en so. 125
Bernardo. It was about to speak, when the cock crew. 170
Bernardo. It would be spoke to.
Bernardo. Last night of all,
Bernardo. Long live the King!
Bernardo. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio. 55
Bernardo. Say-
Bernardo. See, it stalks away!
Bernardo. Sit down awhile, 40
Bernardo. 'Tis here!
Bernardo. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
Bernardo. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
Bernardo. Well, good night.
Bernardo. Who's there?
Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
Be you and I behind an arras then. 1265
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Both to my God and to my gracious king;
Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
Break we our watch up; and by my advice
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell, 670
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
But I do prophesy th' election lights
But I have that within which passeth show-
But I will delve one yard below their mines
But age with his stealing steps
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
But, as we often see, against some storm,
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
But better look'd into, he truly found 1155
But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
But come!
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment 550
But do not go with it!
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
But fall unshaken when they mellow be.
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
But he's an arrant knave.
But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
But if the gods themselves did see her then,
But if you hold it fit, after the play
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion, 1625
But in battalions! First, her father slain; 2940
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
But keep a farm and carters.
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But let me hear from you. 485
But let that go.
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
But look, amazement on thy mother sits. 2510
But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
But never doubt I love. 1215
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
But, orderly to end where I begun,
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them. 3320
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds. 3905
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips 970
But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King- 3545
But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
But that I know love is begun by time, 3255
But that the dread of something after death-
But that this folly douts it. Exit.
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
But this eternal blazon must not be
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
But to confront the visage of offence?
But to my mind, though I am native here
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But truly I do fear it.
But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
But what is your affair in Elsinore? 380
But what we do determine oft we break.
But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof 1690
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
But you'll be secret?
But you must know, your father lost a father;
But you shall hear. Thus:
Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
By Cock, they are to blame.
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me! —
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
By his cockle bat and' staff 2885
By indirections find directions out.
By laboursome petition, and at last
By letters congruing to that effect,
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion, 655
By this encompassment and drift of question
By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
Can you advise me?
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,
Claudius. A Norman.
Claudius. Alas, alas!
Claudius. And can you by no drift of circumstance
Claudius. Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
Claudius. As of a man faithful and honourable.
Claudius. At supper? Where? 2730
Claudius. A very riband in the cap of youth-
Claudius. Ay, Hamlet.
Claudius. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
Claudius. Bring him before us. 2725
Claudius. But how hath she 1225
Claudius. But where is he?
Claudius. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
Claudius. Conceit upon her father.
Claudius. Dead.
Claudius. Do you think 'tis this? 1250
Claudius. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you. 2935
Claudius. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
Claudius. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
Claudius. Gertrude, do not drink.
Claudius. Give me some light! Away!
Claudius. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet, 3900
Claudius. Good Laertes,
Claudius. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
Claudius. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety, —
Claudius. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
Claudius. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
Claudius. He made confession of you;
Claudius. How do you, pretty lady?
Claudius. How fares our cousin Hamlet? 1975
Claudius. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
Claudius. How long hath she been thus?
Claudius. How may we try it further? 1260
Claudius. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
Claudius. I do not think't.
Claudius. If it be so, Laertes
Claudius. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
Claudius. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
Claudius. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
Claudius. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him. 3640
Claudius. It falls right.
Claudius. It likes us well;
Claudius. It shall be so. 1880
Claudius. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
Claudius. Laertes, was your father dear to you? 3250
Claudius. Laertes, you shall hear them.
Claudius. Let him demand his fill.
Claudius. Let's follow, Gertrude.
Claudius. Let's further think of this, 3295
Claudius. Love? his affections do not that way tend;
Claudius. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
Claudius. Not that I know. 1255
Claudius. Not that I think you did not love your father;
Claudius. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
Claudius. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
Claudius. O Gertrude, come away! 2655
Claudius. O, for two special reasons,
Claudius. O heavy deed!
Claudius. O, he is mad, Laertes.
Claudius. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
Claudius. Our son shall win.
Claudius. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
Claudius. Part them! They are incens'd.
Claudius. Pluck them asunder. 3605
Claudius. Pretty Ophelia!
Claudius. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table. 3910
Claudius. She sounds to see them bleed.
Claudius. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
Claudius. So you shall; 3095
Claudius. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine; 3930
Claudius. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too; 1715
Claudius. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
Claudius. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Claudius. Thanks, dear my lord.
Claudius. The doors are broke.
Claudius. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
Claudius. The very same.
Claudius. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Claudius. Thou still hast been the father of good news. 1130
Claudius. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
Claudius. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
Claudius. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
Claudius. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet, 290
Claudius. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
Claudius. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
Claudius. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Claudius. Well, we shall sift him.
Claudius. We will try it. 1270
Claudius. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Claudius. What dost thou mean by this? 2740
Claudius. What do you call the play? 2130
Claudius. What is the cause, Laertes, 2990
Claudius. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
Claudius. Where is Polonius?
Claudius. Who shall stay you?
Claudius. Why, now You speak
Claudius. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
Claudius. Will you know them then?
Claudius. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
Claudius.[aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
Claudius.[aside] O, 'tis too true! 1740
Claudius.[rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below. 2380
[Clown digs and] sings.
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Collected from all simples that have virtue 3290
Come. 1080
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
Come. [They play.] Another hit. What say you? 3935
Come hither, gentlemen, 910
Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
Come short of what he did. 3230
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Come, some music!
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand 3595
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Consent to swear.
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
Cornelius.[with Voltemand] In that, and all things, will we show our duty. 240
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Could not so mope.
Could not (with all their quantity of love)
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Denmark? – What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy 3245
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands 105
Did nothing.
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan. 2300
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star 135
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent 315
Does by their own insinuation grow.
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Do not itself unkennel in one speech, 1960
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal. 665
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Doubt that the sun doth move;
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them? 590
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it, 195
Drabbing. You may go so far. 975
Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
[Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].]
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
Elsinore.
Elsinore. A churchyard.
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris; 955
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum, Colours, and Attendants. 4025
Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Ghost.
[Enter Ghost again.]
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
Enter Horatio.
Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
Enter King.
Enter King.
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern,
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter King and Laertes.
Enter King and Polonius.
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Enter Laertes with others.
Enter Lucianus.This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
[Enter Ophelia.] 1030
[Enter Ophelia. ]
Enter Ophelia distracted.
[Enter Polonius. ]
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
[Enter Polonius.] 2250
Enter Polonius.
[Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.]
[Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.]
Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
Enter Prologue.
[Enter Queen.] 3310
Enter Queen and Polonius.
[Enter Rosencrantz.]
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.] 2660
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Sailors.
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
Enter a Lord.
[Enter a Messenger.] 2960
[Enter a Messenger with letters.]
[Enter four or five Players.] 1500
Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
[Enter the Players with recorders. ]
Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
Enter young Osric, a courtier.
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone? 2650
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults, 2345
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
[Exeunt Attendants.]
Exeunt Gentlemen.
Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
Exeunt King and Polonius].
[Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].] 1275
[Exeunt Players.]
[Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].]
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.] 2630
[Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].]
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some Attendants].
[Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.]
[Exeunt [all but Hamlet].] 475
[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
[Exeunt all but Hamlet.] 2820
Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
Exeunt [all but the Captain].
Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance are shot off.
Exeunt they two.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
[Exit Attendant.]
[Exit First Player.]
[Exit Gentleman.]
Exit Ghost.
[Exit Ghost.] 165
Exit Ghost.
[Exit Horatio.]
[Exit Horatio.]
[Exit Lord.]
[Exit Messenger.]
[Exit Polonius.]
Exit [Polonius].
[Exit [Polonius].]
[Exit Queen.]
[Exit Reynaldo.]
[Exit Second Clown.]
[Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
Exposing what is mortal and unsure 2840
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight, 2470
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Farewell.
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Farewell, dear mother.
Fare you well, my dove!
Father's Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast, 780
Father's Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
Father's Ghost. I am thy father's spirit, 745
Father's Ghost. I find thee apt;
Father's Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
Father's Ghost. Mark me.
Father's Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
Father's Ghost. My hour is almost come,
Father's Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing 740
Father's Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
Father's Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
Father's Ghost. Swear.
Father's Ghost.[beneath] Swear.
Father's Ghost.[beneath] Swear. 935
Father's Ghost.[beneath] Swear by his sword.
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Feeds on his wonder, keeps, himself in clouds, 2950
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast, 1245
Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew 3665
First Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of 3510
First Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
First Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
First Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law. 3365
First Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
First Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
First Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
First Clown. E'en that.
First Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
First Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
First Clown. For no man, sir.
First Clown. For none neither. 3470
First Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
First Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
First Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well. 3385
First Clown. In youth when I did love, did love,
First Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully seeks her own salvation?
First Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
First Clown. Mine, sir.
First Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
First Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
First Clown.[Sings]
First Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
First Clown. To't.
First Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
First Clown. Very strangely, they say.
First Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
First Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
First Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there; 3485
First Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy 3495
First Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
First Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
First Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
First Clown.[sings]
First Player. 'Anon he finds him,
First Player. Ay, my lord. 1610
First Player. Ay, my lord.
First Player. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
First Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
First Player. I warrant your honour. 1895
First Player. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
First Player. What speech, my good lord?
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount, 2295
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet, Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, Voltemand, Cornelius, Lords, and Attendants].
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern,
Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
Flourish for the Players.
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
Follow my mother. King dies.
For England.
For Hecuba!
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
For and a shrouding sheet;
For art and exercise in your defence,
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway, 235
For by the image of my cause I see
Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
For every man hath business and desire,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
For he himself is subject to his birth.
For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
For he was likely, had he been put on,
For husband shalt thou-
For if the King like not the comedy,
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
For in the fatness of these pursy times
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
For nature crescent does not grow alone 495
For out o' doors he went without their help
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
(For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
For such a guest is meet.
For such a guest is meet. 3460
For that which thou hast done, – must send thee hence
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
For the demand of our neglected tribute.
For the supply and profit of our hope,
For they are actions that a man might play;
For this effect defective comes by cause.
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
Fortinbras. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king. 2785
Fortinbras. Go softly on.
Fortinbras. Let four captains
Fortinbras. Let us haste to hear it,
Fortinbras. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
Fortinbras. Where is this sight?
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting; 490
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
For what advancement may I hope from thee,
For what we know must be, and is as common
(For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
For women's fear and love holds quantity,
For your desire to know what is between us,
Francisco. Bernardo? 5
Francisco. Bernardo hath my place.
Francisco. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
Francisco. Give you good night. 20
Francisco. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
Francisco. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
Francisco. Not a mouse stirring.
Francisco. You come most carefully upon your hour.
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts
Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
From another one?
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
From me, whose love was of that dignity
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd. 1585
Gentleman. She is importunate, indeed distract.
Gentleman. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Gentlemen.[within] Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
Gertrude. Ah me, what act,
Gertrude. Alack, 2605
Gertrude. Alack, what noise is this?
Gertrude. Alas, he's mad!
Gertrude. Alas, how is't with you, 2515
Gertrude. Alas, look here, my lord!
Gertrude. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Gertrude. As kill a king?
Gertrude. Ay, amen! 1125
Gertrude. Bestow this place on us a little while.
Gertrude. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
Gertrude. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Gertrude. But not by him! 3000
Gertrude. Calmly, good Laertes. 2985
Gertrude. Came this from Hamlet to her? 1210
Gertrude. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue. 2395
Gertrude. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Gertrude. Come, let me wipe thy face.
Gertrude. Did he receive you well?
Gertrude. Did you assay him
Gertrude. Drown'd, drown'd.
Gertrude. For love of God, forbear him!
Gertrude. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off, 270
Gertrude. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
Gertrude. Hamlet, Hamlet!
Gertrude. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Gertrude. Have you forgot me?
Gertrude. He's fat, and scant of breath.
Gertrude. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
Gertrude. How fares my lord?
Gertrude. How now, Ophelia?
Gertrude. I doubt it is no other but the main, 1145
Gertrude. If it be,
Gertrude. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
Gertrude. I shall obey you; 1725
Gertrude. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me. Drinks.
Gertrude. I will not speak with her.
Gertrude. Let her come in.
Gertrude. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
Gertrude. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Gertrude. More matter, with less art. 1190
Gertrude. Nay, but Ophelia-
Gertrude. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
Gertrude. No more!
Gertrude. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet! 3965
Gertrude. No, nothing but ourselves.
Gertrude. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Gertrude. O Hamlet, speak no more!
Gertrude. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Gertrude. O me, what hast thou done?
Gertrude. O my son, what theme?
Gertrude. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Gertrude. O, speak to me no more!
Gertrude. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this! 2415
Gertrude. So he does indeed.
Gertrude. So many journeys may the sun and moon
Gertrude. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
Gertrude. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.
Gertrude. The lady doth protest too much, methinks. 2125
Gertrude. There is a willow grows aslant a brook, 3315
Gertrude. This is mere madness;
Gertrude. This is the very coinage of your brain.
Gertrude. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
Gertrude. To whom do you speak this? 2530
Gertrude. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
Gertrude. What shall I do?
Gertrude. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
Gertrude. What would she have? 2860
Gertrude. Why, how now, Hamlet?
Gertrude. it may be, very like.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Get you a place.
[Ghost beckons.] 720
Ghost beckons Hamlet.
Ghost cries under the stage.
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
Give him the cup.
Give it an understanding but no tongue.
Give me my father!
Give me one poor request.
Give me superfluous death. A noise within.
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
Given private time to you, and you yourself
[Gives a paper.]
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
Give us the foils. Come on.
Give you good night. Exit.
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both 605
Giving to you no further personal power
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
God 'a'mercy on his soul!
God bless you, sir!
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
Gonzago'?
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son. —
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
Good night, mother.
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
Go on. I'll follow thee.
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Go to thy deathbed;
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
[Grapples with him.]
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet 1685
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
Guildenstern. A thing, my lord?
Guildenstern. Believe me, I cannot.
Guildenstern. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I 2240
Guildenstern. But we both obey,
Guildenstern. But with much forcing of his disposition. 1695
Guildenstern. Faith, her privates we.
Guildenstern. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
Guildenstern. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Guildenstern. Happy in that we are not over-happy. 1330
Guildenstern. Heavens make our presence and our practices
Guildenstern. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
Guildenstern. In what, my dear lord?
Guildenstern. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.
Guildenstern. My honour'd lord! 1325
Guildenstern. My lord, I cannot.
Guildenstern. My lord, we were sent for.
Guildenstern. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
Guildenstern. No, my lord; rather with choler.
Guildenstern. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Guildenstern. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly. 2230
Guildenstern. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Guildenstern. Prison, my lord?
Guildenstern. The King, sir- 2185
Guildenstern. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
Guildenstern. There are the players.
Guildenstern. We will ourselves provide.
Guildenstern. What, my lord?
Guildenstern. What should we say, my lord?
Guildenstern. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same cov'nant 110
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Had it th' ability of life to thank you. 4040
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat, 3225
Hamlet
Hamlet
Hamlet. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
Hamlet. A dream itself is but a shadow.
Hamlet. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
Hamlet. Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
Hamlet. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
Hamlet. A king of shreds and patches! – 2500
Hamlet. Alas, poor ghost!
Hamlet. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
Hamlet. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
Hamlet. A murtherer and a villain!
Hamlet. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
Hamlet. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Hamlet. And smelt so? Pah!
Hamlet. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
Hamlet. An earnest conjuration from the King, 3690
Hamlet. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Hamlet. Are you fair? 1800
Hamlet. Arm'd, say you?
Hamlet. As th'art a man,
Hamlet. As woman's love.
Hamlet. At supper.
Hamlet. A whole one I!
Hamlet. Ay, lady, it was my word.
Hamlet. Ay, madam, it is common.
Hamlet. Ay, marry, is't;
Hamlet. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
Hamlet. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
Hamlet. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
Hamlet. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'– the proverb is something
Hamlet. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,
Hamlet. Ay, sir, what of him?
Hamlet. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye! 1620
Hamlet. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform 1805
Hamlet. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you; 1370
Hamlet. Being thus benetted round with villanies, 3680
Hamlet. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
Hamlet. Between who?
Hamlet. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two 1925
Hamlet. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they
Hamlet. But where was this?
Hamlet. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
Hamlet. Buzz, buzz!
Hamlet. 'By-and-by' is easily said. – Leave me, friends.
Hamlet. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge;
Hamlet. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally. 3950
Hamlet. Come on, sir.
Hamlet. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Hamlet. Denmark's a prison. 1345
Hamlet. Did you not speak to it?
Hamlet. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
Hamlet. Do not believe it.
Hamlet. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
Hamlet. Do the boys carry it away?
Hamlet. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
Hamlet. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Hamlet. Do you see nothing there?
Hamlet. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
Hamlet. Do you think I meant country matters?
Hamlet. Ecstasy?
Hamlet. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
Hamlet. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
Hamlet. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
Hamlet. For England?
Hamlet. For God's love let me hear!
Hamlet. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god
Hamlet. From top to toe?
Hamlet. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
Hamlet. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
Hamlet. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
Hamlet. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
Hamlet. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Hamlet. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Hamlet. Good. 2760
Hamlet. Good madam!
Hamlet. Good sir, whose powers are these?
Hamlet. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
Hamlet. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
Hamlet. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift 765
Hamlet. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
Hamlet. Hear you, sir!
Hamlet. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee. 3990
Hamlet. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
Hamlet. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.
Hamlet. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
Hamlet. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
Hamlet. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
Hamlet. He was a man, take him for all in all.
Hamlet. He will stay till you come.
Hamlet. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
Hamlet. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
Hamlet. His beard was grizzled- no?
Hamlet. Hold off your hands! 715
Hamlet. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
Hamlet. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
Hamlet. How came he mad? 3490
Hamlet. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
Hamlet. How comes it? Do they grow rusty? 1425
Hamlet. How does the Queen?
Hamlet. How if I answer no?
Hamlet. How is it with you, lady?
Hamlet. How long is that since? 3480
Hamlet. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
Hamlet. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
Hamlet. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it? 865
Hamlet. How strangely?
Hamlet. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I 1460
Hamlet. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure. 3835
Hamlet. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
Hamlet. I am glad to see you well.
Hamlet. I am sorry they offend you, heartily; 880
Hamlet. I am tame, sir; pronounce. 2195
Hamlet. I am very glad to see you. – [To Bernardo] Good even, sir. —
Hamlet. I beseech you remember.
Hamlet. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
Hamlet. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in 3785
Hamlet. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by. 3945
Hamlet. I do beseech you. 2235
Hamlet. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in 3845
Hamlet. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
Hamlet. I embrace it freely,
Hamlet. If it assume my noble father's person,
Hamlet. If she should break it now!
Hamlet. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
Hamlet. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
Hamlet. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
Hamlet. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
Hamlet. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
Hamlet. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.
Hamlet. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance 3895
Hamlet. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
Hamlet. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
Hamlet. I mean, my head upon your lap? 1995
Hamlet. I must to England; you know that?
Hamlet. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
Hamlet. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Hamlet. In happy time.
Hamlet. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
Hamlet. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
Hamlet. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
Hamlet. Into my grave?
Hamlet. I pray you.
Hamlet. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
Hamlet. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
Hamlet. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
Hamlet. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Hamlet. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
Hamlet. Is't possible?
Hamlet. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
Hamlet. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
Hamlet. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
Hamlet. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
Hamlet. It shall to the barber's, with your beard. – Prithee say on.
Hamlet. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
Hamlet. It waves me still.
Hamlet. It will be short; the interim is mine,
Hamlet. It will not speak. Then will I follow it. 695
Hamlet. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Hamlet. I will. 735
Hamlet. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it. —
Hamlet. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
Hamlet. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
Hamlet. I will watch to-night. 460
Hamlet. I would I had been there.
Hamlet. I would not hear your enemy say so,
Hamlet. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
Hamlet. Judgment!
Hamlet. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Hamlet. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
Hamlet. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, 3515
Hamlet. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
Hamlet. Look here upon th's picture, and on this, 2445
Hamlet. Madam, how like you this play?
Hamlet. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such 2205
Hamlet. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief. 2030
Hamlet. Methinks it is like a weasel. 2255
Hamlet. Mother, you have my father much offended.
Hamlet. Murther?
Hamlet. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
Hamlet. My fate cries out
Hamlet. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in Rome-
Hamlet. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is 2765
Hamlet. Nay, I know not.
Hamlet. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
Hamlet. Nay, but swear't.
Hamlet. Nay, but to live 2485
Hamlet. Nay come! again! The Queen falls.
Hamlet. Nay, do not think I flatter; 1935
Hamlet. Nay, that follows not.
Hamlet. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Hamlet. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
Hamlet. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly. 3750
Hamlet. No, by the rood, not so! 2400
Hamlet. No, by this hand.
Hamlet. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
Hamlet. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive. 1990
Hamlet. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
Hamlet. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once 1980
Hamlet. No, not I! 1790
Hamlet. Nor did you nothing hear?
Hamlet. Nor the soles of her shoe?
Hamlet. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my 1365
Hamlet. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
Hamlet. Nothing.
Hamlet. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
Hamlet. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
Hamlet. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do: 2585
Hamlet. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
Hamlet. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
Hamlet. Now, mother, what's the matter?
Hamlet. No, you will reveal it.
Hamlet. O God! 760
Hamlet. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
Hamlet. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry? 2005
Hamlet. O, I die, Horatio!
Hamlet. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Hamlet. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else? 830
Hamlet. O, but she'll keep her word.
Hamlet. Of him, sir. 3780
Hamlet. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after. 2705
Hamlet. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
Hamlet. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Hamlet. O my prophetic soul!
Hamlet. One. 3925
Hamlet. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
Hamlet. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
Hamlet. Or like a whale.
Hamlet. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
Hamlet. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
Hamlet. O, throw away the worser part of it, 2560
Hamlet. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
Hamlet. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
Hamlet. Pale or red?
Hamlet. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
Hamlet. Safely stow'd.
Hamlet. Saw? who?
Hamlet. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
Hamlet. She well instructs me.
Hamlet. Sir, I cannot.
Hamlet. Sir, I lack advancement.
Hamlet. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
Hamlet. Sir, a whole history.
Hamlet. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I
Hamlet. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
Hamlet. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
Hamlet. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men 1300
Hamlet. So be it! 855
Hamlet. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
Hamlet. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other. 3650
Hamlet. So you must take your husbands. – Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
Hamlet. Speak. I am bound to hear.
Hamlet. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
Hamlet. Such an act
Hamlet. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
Hamlet. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
Hamlet. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
Hamlet. That is Laertes, 3555
Hamlet. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
Hamlet. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
Hamlet. That's two of his weapons- but well.
Hamlet. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights 1380
Hamlet. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse, 635
Hamlet. The King my father?
Hamlet. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
Hamlet. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
Hamlet. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
Hamlet. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
Hamlet. 'The mobled queen'?
Hamlet. Then I would you were so honest a man.
Hamlet. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
Hamlet. Then came each actor on his ass-
Hamlet. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me 1340
Hamlet. Then saw you not his face?
Hamlet. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by. – They fool me to the
Hamlet. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
Hamlet. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
Hamlet. The point envenom'd too?
Hamlet. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer? 3440
Hamlet. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
Hamlet. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
Hamlet. These tedious old fools!
Hamlet. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.
Hamlet. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I
Hamlet. This?
Hamlet. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Hamlet. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
Hamlet. Thou pray'st not well. 3600
Hamlet. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
Hamlet. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier 3410
Hamlet. 'Tis very strange.
Hamlet. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon. – 1595
Hamlet. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
Hamlet. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
Hamlet. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
Hamlet. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Hamlet. Up from my cabin,
Hamlet. Upon my sword.
Hamlet. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Hamlet. Upon what ground?
Hamlet. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
Hamlet. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not. 1615
Hamlet. Very well, my lord.
Hamlet. Well, God-a-mercy.
Hamlet. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
Hamlet. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast? 915
Hamlet. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
Hamlet. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
Hamlet. What?
Hamlet. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
Hamlet. What call you the carriages?
Hamlet. What did you enact?
Hamlet. What, frighted with false fire?
Hamlet. What, ho, Horatio!
Hamlet. What hour now?
Hamlet. What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
Hamlet. What, look'd he frowningly. 445
Hamlet. What man dost thou dig it for?
Hamlet. What's his weapon?
Hamlet. What's the matter now?
Hamlet. What, the fair Ophelia?
Hamlet. What woman then?
Hamlet. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
Hamlet. Who, I?
Hamlet. Who commands them, sir? 2800
Hamlet. Who is to be buried in't?
Hamlet. Whose was it?
Hamlet. Why, 1485
Hamlet. Why,
Hamlet. Why?
Hamlet. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme 3610
Hamlet. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and 1375
Hamlet. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'? 1405
Hamlet. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
Hamlet. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Hamlet. Why he more than another?
Hamlet. Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
Hamlet. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
Hamlet. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away! 2535
Hamlet. Why, man, they did make love to this employment! 3710
Hamlet. Why, right! You are in the right!
Hamlet. Why, then the Polack never will defend it. 2810
Hamlet. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good 1350
Hamlet. Why, what should be the fear?
Hamlet. With drink, sir?
Hamlet. Words, words, words.
Hamlet. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Hamlet. You are welcome.
Hamlet. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
Hamlet. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
Hamlet. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
Hamlet. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to 2190
Hamlet. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so 1810
Hamlet.[aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
Hamlet.[aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you. – If you love me, hold
Hamlet.[aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
Hamlet.[aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
Hamlet.[comes forward] What is he whose grief
Hamlet.[draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead! 2410
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd; 3875
[Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home. 3275
Hamlet the Dane. [Leaps in after Laertes.]
Hamlet.[within] Mother, mother, mother!
Haply the seas, and countries different,
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
Hath clawed me in his clutch,
Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd 1530
Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
Hath seal'd thee for herself. For thou hast been
Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie, 3975
[Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.] 2015
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
Have by the very cunning of the scene 1665
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous. 580
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy, 210
Have you so slander any moment leisure 620
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes 995
Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
He answers:
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
He closes with you in this consequence:
Hecuba. 1575
He falls to such perusal of my face
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
He is dead and gone; 2890
He is gone, he is gone,
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
Help, help, ho!
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
He never gave commandment for their death.
He never will come again.
He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Here in the lobby.
Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
Here stooping to your clemency, 2040
Here's to thy health.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
Her father and myself (lawful espials)
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home 3565
Her mood will needs be pitied.
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
He sleeps.]
He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
(Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
High on a stage be placed to the view; 4045
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
His access to me.
His beard was as white as snow, 3070
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones, 2525
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
His liberty is full of threats to all-
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
His means of death, his obscure funeral- 3090
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
His silence will sit drooping.
Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Hold you the watch to-night?
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
Horatio. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
Horatio. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
Horatio. And then it started, like a guilty thing
Horatio. A piece of him.
Horatio. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
Horatio. As thou art to thyself. 75
Horatio. A truant disposition, good my lord. 375
Horatio. Ay, good my lord.
Horatio. Ay, my lord.
Horatio. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too. 3455
Horatio. Before my God, I might not this believe
Horatio. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
Horatio. Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
Horatio. Do, if it will not stand.
Horatio. Do not, my lord!
Horatio. E'en so.
Horatio. E'en so, my lord.
Horatio. Friends to this ground.
Horatio. Good my lord, be quiet.
Horatio. Good my lord, tell it.
Horatio. Hail to your lordship! 365
Horatio. Half a share.
Horatio. Have after. To what issue will this come?
Horatio. Heaven secure him!
Horatio. Heaven will direct it.
Horatio. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Horatio. He waxes desperate with imagination. 725
Horatio. How was this seal'd? 3700
Horatio. I beseech you.
Horatio. I did very well note him.
Horatio. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
Horatio. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
Horatio. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon. 385
Horatio. In faith,
Horatio. In what particular thought to work I know not;
Horatio. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.
Horatio. Is it a custom? 640
Horatio. Is't possible?
Horatio. It beckons you to go away with it,
Horatio. I think it lacks of twelve.
Horatio. It is a nipping and an eager air.
Horatio. It might, my lord.
Horatio. It must be shortly known to him from England 3725
Horatio. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Horatio. It would have much amaz'd you.
Horatio. I warr'nt it will.
Horatio. Let him bless thee too.
Horatio. Let them come in.
Horatio. Look, my lord, it comes!
Horatio. Most constantly. 450
Horatio. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
Horatio. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
Horatio. My lord, I did; 425
Horatio. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Horatio. My lord, the King your father.
Horatio. Nay, good my lord—
Horatio. Nay, very pale.
Horatio. Never believe it.
Horatio. No, by no means!
Horatio. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
Horatio. Not a jot more, my lord.
Horatio. Not from his mouth,
Horatio. Not when I saw't.
Horatio. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
Horatio. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Horatio. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Horatio. O, my dear lord!
Horatio. O, where, my lord?
Horatio. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
Horatio. Peace! Who comes here? 3735
Horatio. Propose the oath, my lord. 905
Horatio. Remember it, my lord!
Horatio. Season your admiration for a while 400
Horatio. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
Horatio. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
Horatio. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak! 65
Horatio. That can I.
Horatio. That is most certain.
Horatio. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave 870
Horatio. There's no offence, my lord.
Horatio. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Horatio. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Horatio. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord? 3960
Horatio. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
Horatio. 'Tis here!
Horatio. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Horatio. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Horatio. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so. 3535
Horatio. Two nights together had these gentlemen 405
Horatio. Very well, my lord. 2175
Horatio. Well, my lord.
Horatio. Well, sit we down,
Horatio. What are they that would speak with me? 3100
Horatio. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
Horatio. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Horatio. What is it you will see?
Horatio. What is't, my lord? We will. 890
Horatio. What news, my lord?
Horatio. What's that, my lord?
Horatio. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Horatio. Why, what a king is this!
Horatio. You might have rhym'd.
Horatio. You will lose this wager, my lord.
Horatio.[aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
Horatio.[aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
Horatio.[aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
Horatio.[aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord. 3740
Horatio! – or I do forget myself.
Horatio.[reads the letter] 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
Horatio.[within] My lord, my lord!
How all occasions do inform against me
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
How does your honour for this many a day? 1785
How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that 3425
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun. Exit.
How in my words somever she be shent,
How much I had to do to calm his rage I
How now O What hath befall'n? 2720
How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
How now? What news?
How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
How now, sweet queen?
How should I your true-love know
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
How these things came about. So shall you hear
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure 1135
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane. 4000
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
I be so able as now.
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
I cannot live to hear the news from England,
I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
I could not but by her. The other motive
I dare damnation. To this point I stand, 3005
I did repel his letters and denied
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
I do not know from what part of the world
I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
If I had play'd the desk or table book,
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
If by direct or by collateral hand
If circumstances lead me, I will find
If damned custom have not braz'd it so
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
If his chief good and market of his time
If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
If it be made of penetrable stuff;
If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do 2200
If, once a widow, ever I be wife! 2115
If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
If that his Majesty would aught with us,
If there be any good thing to be done,
If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones, 2475
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
If you desire to know the certainty
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
I had my father's signet in my purse,
I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
I ha't!
I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze 3340
I have a voice and precedent of peace
I have in quick determination 1860
I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
I have sworn't. 850
I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe 3475
I, his sole son, do this same villain send 2360
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife; 3580
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
I'll blessing beg of you. – For this same lord, 2575
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
I'll cross it, though it blast me. – Stay illusion! 145
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room. —
I'll rant as well as thou.
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
I'll visit you.
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
Importing the surrender of those lands
I must be cruel, only to be kind;
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
In censure of his seeming.
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this, 2955
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
I never gave you aught.
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
In filial obligation for some term
In further evil?
In general synod take away her power;
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
In honourable fashion.
In hugger-mugger to inter him; poor Ophelia 2945
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
In neither aught, or in extremity.
In noise so rude against me? 2430
In obstinate condolement is a course
In the corrupted currents of this world
In the dead vast and middle of the night
In thee there is not half an hour of life.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome, 130
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
In this distracted globe. Remember thee? 835
Into a tow'ring passion.
Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this. 2665
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
I pray you go with me.
I pray you, now receive them.
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err, 2465
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
I say, away! – Go on. I'll follow thee.
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Is by a forged process of my death
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
I shall not look upon his like again. 395
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet. 3105
I should have fatted all the region kites
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Is not to stir without great argument,
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you- 3995
I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement 3885
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
I stay too long. But here my father comes.
Is the great love the general gender bear him, 3150
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Is thought-sick at the act.
Is very cunning in.
'It came to pass, as most like it was.'
It could not move thus.
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
It had been so with us, had we been there. 2640
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you. 885
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
It is most retrograde to our desire;
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
It lifted up it head and did address
It may be death.
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
It sends some precious instance of itself 3040
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
It warms the very sickness in my heart 3190
It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
It waves you to a more removed ground.
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place, 2550
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
I will bestow him, and will answer well
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well. 470
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
I would know that.
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
Laertes. A Norman was't?
Laertes. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted. 3055
Laertes. Alas, then she is drown'd?
Laertes. And so have I a noble father lost;
Laertes. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
Laertes. Ay my lord,
Laertes. Come, my lord. They play.
Laertes. Come, one for me.
Laertes. Do you see this, O God?
Laertes. Drown'd! O, where?
Laertes. Farewell. Exit.
Laertes. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well 570
Laertes. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
Laertes. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
Laertes. Have at you now! 3955
Laertes. He is justly serv'd. 3985
Laertes. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
Laertes. How now? What noise is that? 3030
Laertes. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
Laertes. I am satisfied in nature,
Laertes. I know him well. He is the broach indeed 3235
Laertes. I pray you give me leave. 2980
Laertes. I thank you. Keep the door. [Exeunt his Followers.]
Laertes. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain; 3970
Laertes. It well appears. But tell me
Laertes. I will do't! 3285
Laertes. Know you the hand? 3185
Laertes. Lay her i' th' earth;
Laertes. Let this be so.
Laertes. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Laertes. Must there no more be done?
Laertes. My dread lord,
Laertes. My lord, I'll hit him now.
Laertes. My lord, I will be rul'd;
Laertes. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
Laertes. My will, not all the world! 3010
Laertes. No.
Laertes. None but his enemies.
Laertes. O, fear me not!
Laertes. O, treble woe
Laertes. Say you so? Come on. Play.
Laertes. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
Laertes. The devil take thy soul!
Laertes. Think it no more.
Laertes. This is too heavy; let me see another.
Laertes. This nothing's more than matter.
Laertes. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Laertes. To cut his throat i' th' church!
Laertes. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms 3020
Laertes. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia, 3335
Laertes. Upon my life, Lamound.
Laertes. Well, again!
Laertes. What ceremony else?
Laertes. What ceremony else?
Laertes. What out of this, my lord?
Laertes. What part is that, my lord?
Laertes. Where is my father?
Laertes. Where is this king? – Sirs, staid you all without.
Laertes. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
Laertes. Why ask you this?
Laertes. You mock me, sir.
Laertes.[aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
Laertes before you fall to play.
[Laertes falls.]
'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
[Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
Larded all with sweet flowers; 2900
Larded with many several sorts of reasons, 3670
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
[Leaps in the grave.]
Leave us.
Leave wringing of your hands. Peace! sit you down
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
Let me be no assistant for a state,
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell 675
Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman! – 350
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be 820
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
[Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.] 2420
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Like quills upon the fretful porcupine.
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself, —
Looking before and after, gave us not
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue, 545
Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
Look you, I'll go pray.
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd, 1035
Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to 3840
Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at 2905
Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing; Confederate season, else no creature seeing; Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected, With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected, Thy natural magic and dire property On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
Mad let us grant him then. And now remains 1195
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go. Exeunt.
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will, 3080
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
[Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her? 3615
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Make you to ravel all this matter out, 2590
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Marcellus?
Marcellus. And liegemen to the Dane.
Marcellus. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
Marcellus. Holla, Bernardo! 25
Marcellus. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Marcellus. How is't, my noble lord?
Marcellus. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
Marcellus. Is it not like the King?
Marcellus. It faded on the crowing of the cock. 180
Marcellus. It is offended.
Marcellus. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
Marcellus. Look with what courteous action
Marcellus. Lord Hamlet!
Marcellus. My good lord!
Marcellus. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Marcellus. Nay, let's follow him. 730
Marcellus. No, it is struck. 630
Marcellus. Nor I, my lord.
Marcellus. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
Marcellus. O, farewell, honest soldier.
Marcellus. O, wonderful! 860
Marcellus. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
Marcellus. Question it, Horatio.
Marcellus. Shall I strike at it with my partisan? 160
Marcellus. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Marcellus. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Marcellus. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Marcellus. 'Tis gone!
Marcellus. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
Marcellus. We have sworn, my lord, already.
Marcellus. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night? 30
Marcellus. You shall not go, my lord.
(Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
Marcellus.[with Bernardo] Arm'd, my lord. 440
Marcellus.[with Bernardo] Longer, longer. 455
Marcellus.[with Bernardo] My lord, from head to foot.
Marcellus.[with Bernardo] We do, my lord.
Marcellus.[with Horatio] Ay, by heaven, my lord.
Marcellus.[with Horatio] My lord, we will not.
[March within.]
Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
Mark you,
May be a devil; and the devil hath power
May do t' express his love and friending to you, 940
May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
May give his saying deed; which is no further
May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
May sweep to my revenge.
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
Messenger. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet: 3170
Messenger. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
Messenger. Save Yourself, my lord:
Methought it was very sweet;
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Millions of acres on us, till our ground, 3625
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
Moreover that we much did long to see you, 1085
More relative than this. The play's the thing
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
More than in words? 3270
Most free in his reply.
Most generous, and free from all contriving, 3280
Most holy and religious fear it is 2285
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust 810
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Most throughly for my father.
Most welcome home! Exeunt Ambassadors.
Mother, good night. – Indeed, this counsellor
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
Must give us pause. There's the respect
Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words 1660
Must render up myself.
My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
My custom always of the afternoon,
My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
My father- methinks I see my father. 390
My father's brother, but no more like my father
My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
(My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
My head should be struck off. 3675
My liege, and madam, to expostulate 1180
My lord, not I. 895
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast. 1140
My operant powers their functions leave to do. 2065
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
My tables! Meet it is I set it down 845
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth! Exit. 2855
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
My too much changed son. – Go, some of you,
My uncle?
My virtue or my plague, be it either which, – 3145
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
Nay, come, let's go together. 945
Near Elsinore.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
Never departed more.
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
Never to speak of this that you have heard:
New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
Next, your son gone, and he most violent author
No. 2370
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
No medicine in the world can do thee good.
No more.
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
No more, sweet Hamlet!
No more to undertake it, I will work him 3200
None wed the second but who killed the first.
No noble rite nor formal ostentation, —
No, no, he is dead;
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
Nor thine on me! Dies.
Norwegian Captain. Against some part of Poland.
Norwegian Captain. God b' wi' you, sir. [Exit.]
Norwegian Captain. I will do't, my lord.
Norwegian Captain. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Norwegian Captain. They are of Norway, sir.
Norwegian Captain. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Norwegian Captain. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little, 1855
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
Not of that dye which their investments show, 615
No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
Not shriving time allow'd.
Now I am alone.
Now falls on Priam.
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
Now, out of this-
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
Now wears his crown.
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know; 2060
(O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there, 785
O, a Pit of clay for to be made
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
Occasion smiles upon a second leave. 540
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here 2170
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Of bell and burial.
Of blue Olympus.
Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause; 4050
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice, 2340
Of general assault.
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this, 2565
Of him that brought them. 3175
Of his affection to me.
Of his behaviour.
Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
Of his true state.
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
Of man and country- 1000
Of mighty opposites. 3715
Of mine own eyes.
Of my true mother.
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Of these dilated articles allow. [Gives a paper.]
Of the unworthiest siege. 3215
Of thinking too precisely on th' event, – 2830
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress 230
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Of those effects for which I did the murther-
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge 3015
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
O good Horatio, what a wounded name
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
O heavy burthen! 1745
O, ho!
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free, 2350
O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
O most pernicious woman!
O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
'One fair daughter, and no more,
One scene of it comes near the circumstance, 1955
One word more, good lady.
On plots and errors happen.
On such regards of safety and allowance
Ophelia. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord, 600
Ophelia. At home, my lord.
Ophelia. Ay, my lord.
Ophelia. Ay, my lord.
Ophelia. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
Ophelia. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
Ophelia. Do you doubt that?
Ophelia. Good my lord,
Ophelia. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Ophelia. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Ophelia. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
Ophelia. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot 2930
Ophelia. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
Ophelia. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
Ophelia. I shall obey, my lord.
Ophelia. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
Ophelia. I think nothing, my lord.
Ophelia. I was the more deceived.
Ophelia. Madam, I wish it may.
Ophelia. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
Ophelia. My lord?
Ophelia. My lord, I do not know,
Ophelia. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
Ophelia. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Ophelia. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
Ophelia. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
Ophelia. No more but so?
Ophelia. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
Ophelia. No, my lord.
Ophelia. O heavenly powers, restore him!
Ophelia. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Ophelia. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Ophelia. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
Ophelia. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
Ophelia. Pray you mark. 2895
Ophelia. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
Ophelia.[Sings]
Ophelia. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
Ophelia. Still better, and worse.
Ophelia. The King rises.
Ophelia. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
Ophelia. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
Ophelia. 'Tis brief, my lord.
Ophelia. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
Ophelia. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.
Ophelia. What is, my lord? 2000
Ophelia. What means this, my lord?
Ophelia. What means your lordship?
Ophelia. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark? 2880
Ophelia. Will he tell us what this show meant? 2035
Ophelia. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Ophelia. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
Ophelia. You are merry, my lord.
Ophelia. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
Ophelia. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
Ophelia.[sings]
Ophelia.[sings]
Ophelia.[sings]
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,' 930
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Or for some frontier?
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb, 1235
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life 155
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Or like a creature native and indued
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open 515
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
Or not at all.
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase, 595
(O royal knavery!), an exact command,
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd 335
Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
O, say!
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
O, speak!
Osric. A hit, a very palpable hit.
Osric. Ay, my good lord.
Osric. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
Osric. How is't, Laertes?
Osric. I commend my duty to your lordship. 3820
Osric. I know you are not ignorant-
Osric. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Osric. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
Osric. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Osric. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Osric. Look to the Queen there, ho!
Osric. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
Osric. Nothing neither way.
Osric. Of Laertes?
Osric. Rapier and dagger. 3790
Osric. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
Osric. Sir?
Osric. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart 3745
Osric. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
Osric. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
Osric. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Osric. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
Osric. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
Osric. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Osric. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him. 3770
O, step between her and her fighting soul
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs! 2975
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
O thou vile king,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son. 320
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
Our purpose may hold there. – But stay, what noise,
Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame, 220
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own. 2105
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Out of his lunacies.
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,
O, vengeance!
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Over the nasty sty!
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
Passing through nature to eternity. 275
Pays homage to us, – thou mayst not coldly set
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Perpend. 1200
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
Player King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
Player King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
Player King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
Player King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
Player Queen. And never come mischance between us twain!
Player Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
Player Queen. O, confound the rest!
Player Queen. Sleep rock thy brain, 2120
Play something like the murther of my father 1670
Pleasant and helpful to him!
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
Polonius.
Polonius. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
Polonius. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well. 965
Polonius. And let him ply his music.
Polonius. And the Queen too, and that presently.
Polonius. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
Polonius. At 'closes in the consequence'– Ay, marry!
Polonius. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
Polonius. Away, I do beseech you, both away
Polonius. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
Polonius. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Polonius. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
Polonius. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
Polonius. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King. 1060
Polonius. Come, sirs. 1605
Polonius. Do you know me, my lord?
Polonius. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
Polonius. Farewell!
Polonius. Fare you well, my lord. 1320
Polonius. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good discretion.
Polonius. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
Polonius. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Polonius. Give o'er the play. 2155
Polonius. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
Polonius. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful. [Reads.]
Polonius. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
Polonius. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
Polonius. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave 260
Polonius. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
Polonius. Honest, my lord?
Polonius. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
Polonius. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I 1490
Polonius. I have, my lord.
Polonius. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
Polonius. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Polonius. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes 1310
Polonius. It is back'd like a weasel.
Polonius. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
Polonius. I will say so. Exit.
Polonius. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
Polonius. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
Polonius. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Polonius. Mad for thy love?
Polonius. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
Polonius. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
Polonius. Marry, well bethought!
Polonius. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
Polonius. My lord, I have news to tell you.
Polonius. My lord, I will use them according to their desert. 1600
Polonius. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
Polonius. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
Polonius. Not I, my lord. 1280
Polonius. Observe his inclination in yourself.
Polonius. Ophelia, walk you here. – Gracious, so please you,
Polonius. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Polonius. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
Polonius. That hath made him mad. 1070
Polonius. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
Polonius. That's very true, my lord. 1285
Polonius. The actors are come hither, my lord.
Polonius. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
Polonius. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
Polonius. This business is well ended.
Polonius. This is too long.
Polonius. 'Tis most true;
Polonius. Upon my honour- 1475
Polonius. Very like a whale.
Polonius. Well be with you, gentlemen!
Polonius. What do you think of me?
Polonius. What follows then, my lord?
Polonius. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you? 575
Polonius. What is the matter, my lord?
Polonius. What said he? 1045
Polonius. What treasure had he, my lord?
Polonius. Wherefore should you do this?
Polonius. With what, i' th' name of God?
Polonius. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Polonius. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
Polonius. You know sometimes he walks for hours together
Polonius. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo, 950
Polonius.[aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
Polonius.[aside] Still on my daughter.
Polonius.[aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't. —
Polonius.[behind] O, I am slain!
Polonius.[behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
[Polonius hides behind the arras.]
Polonius.[points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this be otherwise.
Polonius.[to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
Pours the poison in his ears.
Pray you be round with him.
Pray you pass with your best violence;
Prepare to play.
Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
Priest. No more be done.
Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Purpose is but the slave to memory, 2080
Pursued my life. 3135
[Puts down the skull.]
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
[Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
Queen. The instances that second marriage move
Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth, 775
[Reads.]
[Reads]'High and Mighty, —You shall know I am set naked on your
[Reads] the letter.]
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Receiv'd his love?
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine, 1160
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain! 1655
Repast them with my blood.
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd, 1545
Requite him for your father.
Resembles that it was. What it should be, 1090
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
[Retires with Horatio.]
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
Reynaldo. As gaming, my lord.
Reynaldo. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and
Reynaldo. Ay, my lord,
Reynaldo. Ay, very well, my lord.
Reynaldo. But, my good lord- 985
Reynaldo. Good my lord! [Going.]
Reynaldo. I shall, my lord. 1025
Reynaldo. I will, my lord.
Reynaldo. My lord, I did intend it.
Reynaldo. My lord, I have.
Reynaldo. My lord, that would dishonour him.
Reynaldo. Very good, my lord.
Reynaldo. Well, my lord.
Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
Richer than that which four successive kings
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
Rosencrantz. As the indifferent children of the earth.
Rosencrantz. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
Rosencrantz. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too. 1445
Rosencrantz. Believe what?
Rosencrantz. Both your Majesties 1110
Rosencrantz. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
Rosencrantz. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Rosencrantz. Good my lord!
Rosencrantz. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
Rosencrantz. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
Rosencrantz. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
Rosencrantz. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
Rosencrantz. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
Rosencrantz. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late 1420
Rosencrantz. I understand you not, my lord.
Rosencrantz. Madam, it so fell out that certain players 1700
Rosencrantz. Most like a gentleman.
Rosencrantz. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
Rosencrantz. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to 2700
Rosencrantz. My lord, you once did love me.
Rosencrantz. My most dear lord!
Rosencrantz. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
Rosencrantz. Neither, my lord.
Rosencrantz. Niggard of question, but of our demands
Rosencrantz. No indeed are they not.
Rosencrantz. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Rosencrantz. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
Rosencrantz. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Rosencrantz. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Rosencrantz. Then is the world one.
Rosencrantz. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
Rosencrantz. The single and peculiar life is bound
Rosencrantz. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
Rosencrantz. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Rosencrantz. To what end, my lord?
Rosencrantz. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
Rosencrantz. We shall, my lord.
Rosencrantz. We think not so, my lord.
Rosencrantz. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Rosencrantz. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Rosencrantz. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
Rosencrantz. Will't please you go, my lord?
Rosencrantz. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Rosencrantz.[aside to Guildenstern] What say you? 1385
Rosencrantz.[to Polonius] God save you, sir!
Rosencrantz.[with Guildenstern] We'll wait upon you.
Rosencrantz.[with Guildenstern] We will haste us.
Rosencrantz.[with Guildenstern] We will, my lord.
Rough-hew them how we will- 3660
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.
Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
Sailor. God bless you, sir.
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway? 1150
Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
[Scatters flowers.]
Second Clown. But is this law?
Second Clown. Go to! 3380
Second Clown. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
Second Clown. Marry, now I can tell!
Second Clown. Mass, I cannot tell.
Second Clown. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
Second Clown. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand
Second Clown. Was he a gentleman?
Second Clown. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
Second Clown. Why, he had none. 3375
Second Clown. Why, 'tis found so.
Second Clown. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
See what a grace was seated on this brow;
See you now-
Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not? 1020
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes, 115
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post 360
She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
Should have a back or second, that might hold 3300
Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt 2645
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands, 2050
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Since nature cannot choose his origin, —
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red 2775
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
[Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity, 2920
[Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
(Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,
[Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
(Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day, 2910
(Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
Sir, in this audience,
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
[Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
So bloodily hast struck.
So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
So, by my former lecture and advice,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
So excellent a king, that was to this
So far from cheer and from your former state. 2055
So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So horridly to shake our disposition
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
So levied as before, against the Polack;
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Some little time; so by your companies
Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
So much from th' understanding of himself,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
So oft it chances in particular men
So, proceed you. 1540
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
So to seduce! – won to his shameful lust
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish 1970
'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
Speak loudly for him.
Speak, man.
Speak of it! Stay, and speak! – Stop it, Marcellus!
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Speak to me.
Speak to me.
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
[Spreads his arms.]
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
Sprung from neglected love. – How now, Ophelia? 1870
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me 415
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Stick fiery off indeed.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age 3160
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash 1550
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely, 3705
Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so? 2595
Such love must needs be treason in my breast. 2070
Such was the very armour he had on
Sure he that made us with such large discourse, 2825
Swear.
Swear by my sword.
Swear by my sword.
'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be 1650
THE END
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment. 555
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
Take these again; for to the noble mind 1795
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this 4070
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps 1675
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head, 2965
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet, 610
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. 920
Than fly to others that we know not of? 1775
Than is my deed to my most painted word.
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father. 250
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
Than settled age his sables and his weeds, 3220
Than that which dearest father bears his son
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Than to entreaty.
Than your particular demands will touch it. 960
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
That I am guiltless of your father's death, 3025
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
That I essentially am not in madness,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears 1635
That I have Positively said 'Tis so,'
That I have longed long to re-deliver.
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house 3880
That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test, 2545
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
That I might be the organ.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
That I must call't in question.
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That are so fortified against our story,
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
That both the world, I give to negligence,
'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd 2335
That capability and godlike reason
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry. 1065
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
That ever I was born to set it right!
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation
That for a fantasy and trick of fame 2850
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling 1465
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature 340
That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
That has no relish of salvation in't- 2375
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
That he is open to incontinency.
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven 345
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
That he which hath your noble father slain
That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
That, if again this apparition come,
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without 2815
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by 2505
That lend a tyrannous and a damned light 1535
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
That live and feed upon your Majesty.
That looks so many fadoms to the sea 710
That makes calamity of so long life.
That may to thee do ease, and, grace to me, 150
That might your nature, honour, and exception
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
That our devices still are overthrown;
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf, 770
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile phrase.
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That show of such an exercise may colour 1735
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly 980
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
That sweepstake you will draw both friend and foe,
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
That thou so many princes at a shot
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
That thus he suffers for.
That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
That to Laertes I forgot myself, 3730
That to the use of actions fair and good
That treason can but peep to what it would,
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth 1850
That was and is the question of these wars.
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
That we find out the cause of this effect-
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That youth and observation copied there,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
[The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave.]
The Devil himself.
The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
The King is a thing-
[The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet. 3940
The Queen’s closet.
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
The apparition comes. I knew your father. 420
The bark is ready and the wind at help, 2755
The bell then beating one- 50
The better to beguile. This is for all:
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
The canker galls the infants of the spring
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth, 3920
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
The chariest maid is prodigal enough 520
[The cock crows.]
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand 3550
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial. 3350
The death I gave him. So again, good night. 2580
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd. [Dies.]
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing 4035
The fair Ophelia! – Nymph, in thy orisons
Th' effect of what I wrote?
The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
The form of plausive manners, that these men
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
The hart ungalled play; 2160
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
The head is not more native to the heart,
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks 1755
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
The insolence of office, and the spurns
The instant burst of clamour that she made
The inward service of the mind and soul
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
The leperous distilment; whose effect
The light and careless livery that it wears
The lists, and full proportions are all made
The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
The natural gates and alleys of the body, 805
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
The need we have to use you did provoke
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike, 185
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
Then, venom, to thy work. Hurts the King.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
The origin and commencement of his grief
The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay, 1765
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
The pith and marrow of our attribute. 650
The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit. 4015
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England; 2780
The rather, if you could devise it so
The ratifiers and props of every word,
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
Therefore I have entreated him along, 35
Therefore let's follow. 3345
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
There is a play to-night before the King.
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
There lives within the very flame of love
There, my lord.
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride, 100
There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse; 1010
There with fantastic garlands did she come
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste. 15
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-' 1525
The safety and health of this whole state, 505
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
These hands are not more like.
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
These words like daggers enter in mine ears. 2490
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom. 2270
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You 2150
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
The tedious day with sleep.
The terms of our estate may not endure
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
The triumph of his pledge.
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
The unseen good old man.
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
The very faculties of eyes and ears.
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The violence of either grief or joy
The virtue of his will; but you must fear, 500
The which he loved passing well.'
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
They bore him barefac'd on the bier
They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!' 2970
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
They had begun the play. I sat me down;
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
They shall go far with little.
[They swear.]
They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Th' important acting of your dread command?
'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to
(Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me! 4005
This above all- to thine own self be true,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state. 85
This bodiless creation ecstasy 2540
This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
This grave shall have a living monument. 3645
This heavy-headed revel east and west 645
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
This is the very ecstasy of love,
This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
This mad young man. But so much was our love
This man shall set me packing.
This marvel to you.
This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her, 1240
This night to play before him. 1705
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days. Exit.
This presence knows, 3865
This present object made probation.
This realm dismantled was
This something-settled matter in his heart, 1865
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
This sudden sending him away must seem 2715
This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
This unprevailing woe, and think of us 310
This warlike volley.
This was your husband. Look you now what follows. 2455
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down! 1845
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Though inclination be as sharp as will.
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily. 2870
Thou know'st already.
Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Through your dominions for this enterprise, 1170
Thrown out his angle for my proper life, 3720
Throws up [another skull].
[Throws up a skull.]
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,
'Thus didest thou.'
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Thus runs the world away.
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
Till by some elder masters of known honour
Till of this flat a mountain you have made 3590
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May! 3035
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink, 3330
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
Till then in patience our proceeding be.
Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother, 280
'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
'Tis now the very witching time of night,
'Tis strange. 80
'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
To England send him; or confine him where
[To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
To any pastime?
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
To be commanded.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
To be your Valentine.
To both your honours. 1730
To business with the King, more than the scope
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions 1075
To cast thee up again. What may this mean 680
To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove, 3405
To desperation turn my trust and hope, 2110
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever 295
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me. 2835
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
To exploit now ripe in my device,
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief, 285
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Together with that fair and warlike form 60
To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
To give it due content.
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
To give them seals never, my soul, consent! Exit. 2275
To give these mourning duties to your father;
To give the world assurance of a man.
To grunt and sweat under a weary life, 1770
To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
To hear and see the matter.
To hear him so inclin'd. 1710
To hear of it. They are here about the court,
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
To heaven.
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
To him from whom you brought them. Exeunt.
To his confine; and of the truth herein
To his unmast'red importunity.
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To keep itself from noyance; but much more 2290
To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
To keep those many many bodies safe
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To let this canker of our nature come
To let you know of it. 435
To make it truster of your own report
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue; 2555
To mine own room again; making so bold
To muddy death.
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
To offer it the show of violence;
Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
To our most valiant brother. So much for him. 225
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt. 2085
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
To punish me with this, and this with me,
To put an antic disposition on), 925
To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
To show his grief. Let her be round with him; 1875
To show my duty in your coronation, 255
To show us so much gentry and good will 1105
To show yourself your father's son in deed
To sing a requiem and such rest to her 3570
To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man 1950
To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
To take him in the purging of his soul,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
To tell my story. [March afar off, and shot within.]
To tell the secrets of my prison house, 750
To tell us this.
To the ambassadors of England gives
'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified Ophelia,'– 1205
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
To the next abstinence; the next more easy; 2570
To the unsatisfied.
To those of mine! 790
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
To what I shall unfold.
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
To you alone. 690
To you in satisfaction; but if not, 3085
To youth and liberty.
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
Treachery! Seek it out.
Truly deliver.
Try what repentance can. What can it not?
Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd, 815
Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
(Unless things mortal move them not at all) 1590
Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Unto our climature and countrymen.
Unto that element; but long it could not be
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Upon whose property and most dear life
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Voltemand. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill. 190
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet. 3870
We beg your hearing patiently. [Exit.]
We cannot get from him.
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
We go to gain a little patch of ground 2805
We heard it all. – My lord, do as you please;
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Welcome, my good friends.
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
We'll put the matter to the present push. —
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
We may of their encounter frankly judge
We must with all our majesty and skill
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
We shall express our duty in his eye; 2790
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
We should profane the service of the dead
We will bestow ourselves. – [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
We would not understand what was most fit,
What I have said to you.
What company, at what expense; and finding
What does this mean, my lord?
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell 4030
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
What, is Horatio there ?
What is between you? Give me up the truth. 585
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
What is the issue of the business there.
What is the matter?
What is the reason that you use me thus? 3635
What majesty should be, what duty is,
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
What might you think? No, I went round to work
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
What think you on't? 70
What thou hast said to me.
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
What warlike noise is this? 4010
What we two nights have seen.
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
When I had seen this hot love on the wing 1230
When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out 2265
When down her weedy trophies and herself
When he himself might his quietus make
When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then, 2845
When in one line two crafts directly meet. 2615
When in your motion you are hot and dry-
When it prov'd otherwise.?
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
When second husband kisses me in bed.
When second husband let me be accurst!
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
When thou liest howling.
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, 1760
When we would bring him on to some confession
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
Where every god did seem to set his seal
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King. Exit. 1680
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Wherein they say you shine, Your sum of parts
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Where is your son?
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament; 2090
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Where should we have our thanks?
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus 1100
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love. 2095
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer 1750
Which I have told thee, of my father's death.
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
Which bewept to the grave did not go
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
Which have solicited- the rest is silence. Dies. 4020
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Which now goes too free-footed.
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,
Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
Which was declining on the milky head
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
Who hath reliev'd you?
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
Who is't that can inform me? 95
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
Whose violent property fordoes itself
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter, 2670
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense 3585
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
Who was in life a foolish peating knave. 2620
Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
Why does the drum come hither?
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why the man dies. – I humbly thank you, sir.
Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy. 2180
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
Why to a public count I might not go
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
Why you proceeded not against these feats
Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
William Shakespeare
Will not debate the question of this straw.
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen, 1720
Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
Will you be rul'd by me? 3195
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
Winner and loser?
With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
With all my imperfections on my head.
With all my love I do commend me to you;
With all the strength and armour of the mind
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head 1580
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing! 1630
With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Within the centre.
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial, 800
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword 1565
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
Without debatement further, more or less,
Without more motive, into every brain
Without the sensible and true avouch
Without the which we are pictures or mere beasts;
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
With sore distraction. What I have done
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
With this regard their currents turn awry 1780
With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls? 685
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
With true-love showers.
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
With variable objects, shall expel
With which she followed my poor father's body
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
Witness this army of such mass and charge,
Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile? 3620
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Words without thoughts never to heaven go. Exit.
Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly- 3655
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle; 355
Would have reverted to my bow again, 3155
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Would make them capable. – Do not look upon me,
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
Yea, from the table of my memory
Yea, this solidity and compound mass, 2440
Yes, faith, heartily.
Yet I, 1640
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin rites,
Yet must not we put the strong law on him. 2710
Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature 205
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move 2865
Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
You are the most immediate to our throne,
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. – I am glad to see thee
You, as your business and desires shall point you, 875
You cannot call it love; for at your age 2460
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane 245
You do not understand yourself so clearly
You do remember all the circumstance?
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You go not till I set you up a glass 2405
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
You have been talk'd of since your travel much, 3210
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
You know the wager?
You laying these slight sullies on my son
You mainly were stirr'd up. 3140
You must not put another scandal on him,
You must not take for fire. From this time
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
Young men will do't if they come to't
You promis'd me to wed.' 2925
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth; 1015
Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements, 2520
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone 215
Your leave and favour to return to France;
Your loneliness. – We are oft to blame in this,
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Your wisdom best shall think.
You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed. 1470
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution, 3430
a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.
act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the 1400
affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as 1520
again.
against their own succession.
against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical 1395
a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
amazement and admiration. 2210
amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
and Lords.
and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes 3825
and other Lords attendant, with the Guard carrying torches.]
and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go
and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
and then, you know,
and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
answer as I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
are unwrung.
argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French 3805
as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't. 1290
a thing to you from his Majesty.
bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
bellow for revenge.
bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose, 3815
but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
carpenter? 3390
carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she 2025
carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
city? Are they so follow'd?
clouts.
come.
comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
cum aliis.
dare scarce come thither.
defence?
demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own
deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician, 3420
died. They say he made a good end. 3060
discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
discourse to your beauty.
discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no 1390
do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all; 1820
dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
end.
end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
ere you had done. 3800
escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
eyes. Prithee no more!
faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
father?
favours? 1335
favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
fay, I cannot reason.
feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
first mouth'd, to be last swallowed. When he needs what you have 2695
for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell. 3125
for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again. – What do you
form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
(for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
for your succession in Denmark?
freely, or the blank verse shall halt for't. What players are
full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and 3760
further trade with us? 2215
gentleman.' 1005
gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you 1835
glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
grave-making?
great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his 3445
great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance 1905
guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
hath borne me on his back a thousand times. And now how abhorred
hath sent me to you.
have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
have not the skill.
have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
have sent for you.
have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and 1410
he.
hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter- 3755
he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
help to hasten them?
heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
him, HAMLET.' 1220
him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
him and my daughter. – My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his 2020
himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
his kibe. – How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
his love.
his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
hither?
holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
hold up Adam's profession.
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his 3050
humanity so abominably.
if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer. 3810
image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor 1480
in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
innovation.
inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
insert in't, could you not?
into England.
into a toil?
is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the 2735
is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
it. Adieu.
i' th' university, you say?
it is but a shadow's shadow. 1360
it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
it means, say you this:
it not?
journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
kill'd me. 1985
kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes; 3180
king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams. 1355
kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
know a hawk from a handsaw.
know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of 3765
ladies. Good night, good night. Exit
ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the 1505
laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of
life,
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
liquor. 3400
little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
love passing well.
lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music, 2245
lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
make you at Elsinore?
make you ready. 1920
man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is, 3360
man is twice a child.
march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern,
married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
master's daughter.
me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.
me, whether you were sent for or no.
might it not?
mind.
mine.
mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
more, ha?
more than their even-Christian. Come, my spade! There is no 3370
much approve me. Well, sir?
musty. 2225
my leave of you. 1315
my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you
nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,
neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what 1830
neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
not.
not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir, 1305
not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
not off.
not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
not so wildly from my affair.
not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come: 3855
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell. 1825
now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that 3520
obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
occasion of my sudden and more strange return. 'HAMLET.'
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
of a king? 2690
of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will 3450
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd for't. These are now
of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
on't.
on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd
own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
philosophy could find it out. 1450
pick'd out of ten thousand.
piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do 1885
plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
plunge him into far more choler.
pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
pound! Didst perceive?
prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
purpose, confess thyself-
put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
rawer breath?
read, my lord? 1295
reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in 1515
reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
repair hither and say you are not fit.
reputation and profit, was better both ways.
roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
say-
scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
sense.
sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
shall be the end of my business.
shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose
shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
shame and the odd hits.
shipwright, or the carpenter?
shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir? 2165
should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.
should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse 1815
sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
sir, – it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if 3110
sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
skull, the King's jester.
slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, 3795
souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers 2135
soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to 1890
speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them 1915
spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
spent.
stopping a bunghole?
strumpet. What news ?
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's 1910
suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten 2010
sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
take longer time.
target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech. 1510
tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
tell me one thing. 3525
tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
tenants.
that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
the King.
the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest. 3465
the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come; if it be
the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
the guts of a beggar.
them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou 3120
themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means 1435
them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and 1430
them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
the only men.
the players ready.
the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an 3355
the puppets dallying. 2140
the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you 2745
there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
the stair, into the lobby.
the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
they? 1415
they are. To a nunnery, go. Exit. 1840
they'll tell all.
think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
thirty years.
this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth 2145
till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
tongue? You will do't, sir, really. 3775
top of my bent. – I will come by-and-by. 2260
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
tragedians of the city.
tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene
translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring. – Masters, you are
unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
very liberal conceit.
very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too 3115
vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel? 3540
waterfly?
we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
well. – Welcome, good friends. – O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
went to cuffs in the question.
were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
what part a gentleman would see.
when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
where my abridgment comes.
which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player 1440
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as 1900
will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last 3500
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
within 's two hours.
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I 1455
work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
world.
would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
would perhaps trouble a woman. 3850
would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
you cannot play upon me.
you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
you nine year.
you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
your bounty. Take them in.
your friend. 2220
your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
your table!
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien 3505
